TRANSCRIPT OF A TELEPHONE CONVERSATIONBETWEEN THE PRESIDENT AND CHARLES W.COLSON ON MARCH 21, 1973 FROM7:53 TO 8:24 PMTRANSCRIPT OF A TELEPHONE CONVERSATIONBETWEEN THE PRESIDENT AND CHARLES W. COLSONON MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:35 TO 8:24 P.M.OPERATOR:Yes?PRESIDENT:Mr. Colson, please.OPERATOR:Thank you, Mr. President.(Pause)COLSON:Hello.OPERATOR:Mr. Colson is on the line, sir. PRESIDENT:Oh. COLSON:Good evening, Mr. President.PRESIDENT:Well, how's your business coming now?COLSON:Well, we're working hard at it, sir. PRESIDENT:Right.COLSON:We, uh, we, we, we're fighting 'em off,fighting 'em off at the doors. I was --PRESIDENT:You mean your clients? COLSON:(Laughs) Funny that -- it's just, uh, my jobis getting, getting my own firm organizedand&#8211;PRESIDENT:Right. COLSON:finding enough hours in the day to do thethings I want to do.PRESIDENT:Right, right, right, right. COLSON:It's coming very well.PRESIDENT:Right.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:35 TO 8:24 P.M.2COLSON:I had an interesting visit last night with,uh, Howard Baker's administrative assistant.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Um huh.COLSON:He, uh, claims and uh, -- I don't know howmuch truth there is in it but, uh, -- thatHoward really wants to work with us,totally. Uh, and that he's just a little frustrated. He said he's, uh, he said don't pay any attention to what he has been sayingon the floor or, uh, a couple of times thathe said things that he said were unfortunate. He said we -- he said Howardregrets them but, uh, when it appeared thathe was breaking with the President, he said he wasn't. What he's trying to do is protect his credibility with Ervin so thathe can negotiate with him and, uh, he saidhe really just wants -- he doesn't have the votes and he said he just wants to be able to, to hold Ervin at uh, uh, at, at bay, andbe able to control him and he said,therefore, he's trying, he, Howard, is trying to act like one of the Senate club sothat he doesn't, uh...PRESIDENT:Sure, um huh. COLSON:uh, doesn't destroy his relationship with... PRESIDENT:Yeah.COLSON:...uh, Ervin. He did say that he, thatHoward felt frustrated because he said he, he wants uh, to be the defender of thePresident -- just looking at my notes --but, but, uh, the same time appearing to be disinterested, but he said he hasn't really been able to get a channel of communicationwhere he could work with anyone yet, though.I had, uh, I want to talk to Haldeman about this because...PRESIDENT:Well, he has to work with Kleindienst,that's where he has to really begin.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:35 TO 8:24 P.M.3COLSON:Well, he's working with Kleindienst but he'snot, uh...PRESIDENT:Getting anything, huh?COLSON:No, and he's not -- doesn't think that's agood idea. He said that's got certaindangers inherent in it to work with theAttorney General, uh, he, he'd kind of like more political counseling and, uh, I can do some of it, I think, uh, through my sources,but, uh, through George Webster, but...PRESIDENT:He can't do it at the White House. You cansee that.COLSON:No, it can't be the White House. That's,uh...PRESIDENT:That's right. He's got to be able to denythat totally, you see?COLSON:I don&#8482;t know, but maybe even George Bush,uh, might be able to help. I don't know, I've been trying to think today how the hell to do it.PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah.COLSON:Uh, he, he just says he wants, uh, he wantssomeone...PRESIDENT:Why the hell doesn't he use Mitchell?COLSON:Well, Mitchell will be a principal in thething which is...PRESIDENT:Yeah, I suppose so.COLSON:But you see, he thinks, uh, well, uh, Iwon't burden you with it. But the only important thing I think, Mr. President, isthat, that he, he said the only reservationthat -- Howard wants to help go all the way and, and work with us and wants to defend you and wants to defend the Republican Party-- took this assignment on because he feltthat otherwise it might fall into someone's hands in the Senate who was not able to --MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:35 TO 8:24 P.M.4PRESIDENT:Yeah, uh, is lie, uh,&#8211;COLSON:Sharp and adroit?PRESIDENT:...aware of the fact that, uh, Ervin's ratherpartisan?COLSON:Oh, he thinks Ervin is, uh, is, is, isbordering on senility and, uh, well, I'm, I'm quoting, of course second-hand through HughBrenson but he said he thinks that Ervin isbordering on senility, is a total partisan...PRESIDENT:That's for sure.COLSON:...a phony. And he, he described, Hughdescribes him as a phony and he said that, uh,Howard doesn't have any respect for him. I mean, he has respect for him but he's not...PRESIDENT:Yeah.COLSON:...great constitutional lawyer, uh, that hemakes himself out to be and he said that, hesaid Howard's under no illusions about SamErvin, he said -PRESIDENT:How about, though, the counsel, he's not say,senile, that's the problem there, isn't it?COLSON:Dash? PRESIDENT:Yeah.COLSON:Yeah, he's a sharp cookie according to Brensonand uh, not at all senile and sees anopportunity to make a real name for himself.Uh, they're just, uh, basically, uh, the pointthat Brenson, well, uh, the reason he asked tosee me and this was -- well, George Webster was kind of the innovator -- but the reason heasked to see me was he said, "Jesus, somebodysit down with us and just go through the, uh,uh, the thing and coordinate with us.&#64258; Hesaid, "for example, the President put out astatement on Executive Privilege; we, we gotcaught by surprise. We weren't prepared, wedidn't know he was gonna do it.&#64258;PRESIDENT:Oh, yes he did. I'd told him before.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:35 TO 8:24 P.M.5COLSON:Well, he said, anyway. But you know, he, that'sprobably the typical, uh...PRESIDENT:Sure. COLSON:...little bit of an apology session(unintelligible)...PRESIDENT:Right.COLSON:...I think he, I think he wanted to be sure thatwe knew that, uh, uh, that he wasn't, uh...PRESIDENT:Right. COLSON:getting off the reser -- well that's clear. Onething last night was very clear. He wanted me to be sure and he asked me whether I was incommunication with, with you or with, uh,Haldeman and I said yes and, uh, he said well please, he said be sure they know we're not getting off the reservation. We, we want to help, we just feel like...PRESIDENT:Yeah. COLSON:...we need a channel of information. And weneed to know the facts and, uh...PRESIDENT:Um huh. COLSON:...we need somebody to take us into confidenceonce in a while and keep us clued in and, uh...PRESIDENT:Right. COLSON:...and give us all the facts. We mu- we'll knowhow to handle them. We, we'll defend you ifyou...PRESIDENT:Yeah. COLSON:...we'll defend the Administration if we knowwhat the facts are.PRESIDENT:What's your judgment as to what, (clears throat)what ouqht to be done now. You know, there'svarious discussions about, uh, whether, uh, should be, uh, a uh, report made or something, you know, a, uh, report to, uh, the President or just hunker down and take it or what, what have you, and so forth, and so on.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:35 TO 8:24 P.M.6COLSON:Well, my feelings, Mr. President, uh, thus far,frankly, is that you're not being hurt by this at all. That this is, a, a, a Washington story still and that, that sounds incredible after all this time and all this publicity but I, I, I'm convinced that, uh, uh...PRESIDENT:But you see, looking to the future, I suppose,Chuck, what some of our fellows that are, you know, like, uh, when Dean, who's really done a superb job here keeping all the fires out, he's, (clears throat) he's concerned about, you know, what, what bubbles out, you know.COLSON:Yeah, well Dean has a problem also, Mr.President. I, I didn't want to say this to you, uh, Monday night when you mentioned to me that, uh, uh, that, that Dean has done a spectacular job. I don't think anybody could do as good a job as John has done. The, the problem I foresee in this is not what has happened so far-- I mean I, I think the, uh, the mystery of theWatergate, uh, I don't know whether somebody s gonna, uh, somebody else higher up in the Committee for the Re-Election is gonna get named or not but, uh, to me that isn't of very great consequence to the country if it, if it happens.The thing that worries me is that, is thepossibility of somebody, uh, charging an obstruction of justice problem -- in other words that the subsequent actions would worry me more than anything and it, that's where John has, you know, he's done all the things that have to bedone but, that, that makes him a little more ofa participant than, than you would like if you, if you, if, uh, he's the fellow that has to, uh, coordinate it all. It's in, uh -- of course, he's got the best privilege, he's got a double privilege but, you know the, the subsequentdevelopments would be the only ones that wouldworry me. I don't worry about the, uh, how the Waterqate came about. I think that&#8482;s been so milked out that they get someone else, well they get 'em, that's all. And if there's testimony, it&#8482;ll...PRESIDENTUm huh.COLSON:...it will get so God-damn confused. It&#8482;s, it&#8482;smay be the stuff after, uh, afterwards that...MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:35 TO 8:24 P.M.7PRESIDENT:You mean, uh, the me-, yo-, been saving uh,the, the, with regard to the defendants? Ofcourse, that was all...COLSON:Yeah, that, that's, that's that area I mean,that general area.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Of course, that was...COLSON:I don't want to burden you with any... PRESIDENT:...that had to be done. (Laughs) COLSON:Hell, yeah. No, I'm not -- no secondthoughts. That's not the point.PRESIDENT:Yeah. COLSON:The point is that, just that, it limits theability now to...PRESIDENT:Yeah. COLSON:...to stand up to it. I don&#8482;t know, uh,I've thought of several things. I'vethought of trying to get a, uh, a specialcounsel in to you that could, uh, uh, you, you...PRESIDENT:We could appoint, you mean?COLSON:Yeah, that you could appoint. Not, not asan investigator but as a counsel. Just to handle the God-damn thing on the groundsthat you don't want the Justice Departmenthandling it, and you don't want the regular White House staff handling it -- they've got their work to do.PRESIDENT:Yeah.COLSON:And, uh, you appoint a man of... PRESIDENT:Which has...COLSON:...totally impeccable uh, credentials, uh...PRESIDENTUm, huh.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:35 TO 8:24 P.M.8COLSON:...a man known for his integrity, uh, standingbefore the Bar, you know, that kind of thing.But, a guy who is also totally loyal or just adamned good lawyer who would he professionalthen. That's one thought that I've beenplaying with the last couple of days.PRESIDENT:Yeap. Hum.COLSON:We have an advantage, you see, of getting allthe, the people who have been in one way oranother participating out of the damn thing sothat you, you've got a guy who, uh, franklycan, can deal with, uh, deal with anybody hehas to deal with.PRESIDENT:Yeah.COLSON:Special counsel.PRESIDENT:I think they have, of course, of course,you've got the problem of what the judge isgonna say Friday. I suppose he's gonna havequite an haranque, isn't he?COLSON:Oh yeah, yeah, he's, he's.PRESIDENT:He's pretty tough and then, of course, you'vegot the problem of, uh, the defendants, particularly Hunt. What he, what's he gonnado. That's always a problem, I know.COLSON:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Of course he's got problems if he doesanything. You know whether he&#8482;s, uh...COLSON:Oh, that's right.PRESIDENT:You know what I mean. He's, uh... COLSON:Yes, sir. I, my own opinion of that is thathe, uh, that he just will hang in where he is.I mean, think he, uh, that, at the moment Ithink that's in, in as good shape as it canbe. Uh, you never know -- lot of...PRESIDENT:There're a lot of pressures on him, lot ofpressures.Sure areMARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:35 TO 8:24 P.M.9COLSON:Yeah, hell of a lot. But it's uh, but, no -- Ithink what you'll get is another harangue from the judge and, uh...PRESIDENT:Probably calling, don&#8482;t you imagine, for theGrand Jury to go back into session and call everybody again.COLSON:Yes sir, yeah, U.S. Attorney's already, uh,already indicated he was gonna do that, so, the judge is bound to use that, that ploy to grandstand that but that doesn't trouble me too much&#8211;PRESIDENT:Well, I wo-, I don't have any problem frankly,if, I'd hell of a lot rather have everybody inthe White House staff and former White House staff members called before a Grand Jury than I would before, uh, (laughs) the Committee, wouldn't you?COLSON:Oh, absolutely. Absolutely, there's nothing, asa matter of fact, well, all, uh, everybody inthe White House staff, former White House staffhas been before the Grand Jury.PRESIDENT:Right, except, except for, of course, Haldeman,Ehrlichman.COLSON:That's right, I guess now... PRESIDENT:See you...COLSON:gave depositions. Uh, but there -- of courseEhrlichman talked to the, uh...PRESIDENT:FBI. COLSON:...FBI. Yeah, (unintelligible) PRESIDENT:But that, that, see that's the part that theymight want to get into, which I wouldunderstand.COLSON:Sure, well that -- that wouldn't bother me, ofcourse, you, you do have privilege questions that, I mean, uh, there's the question of where and when you waive privilege that, uh, we'd have to worry of...PRESIDENT:But it'd be very difficult to waive it -- to, toclaim it for a Grand Jury, I think.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:35 TO 8:24 P.M.10COLSON:That's right. For a Grand Jury, you couldhave...PRESIDENT:I don't think: you can really waive it. Idon't think you can really, uh, stand, stand with it, I mean. Before a Senate Committeeit's one thing. Before a Grand Jury I thinksomething else.COLSON:That's right. Yeah, or, or, uh, in a civilproceeding in open court or in a, uh,deposition in a civil proceeding or, or in acongressional hearing you've got one set of rules, in the Grand Jury where there'ssecrecy...PRESIDENT:That's a different matter. COLSON:It's a different matter, that's right. PRESIDENT:That's right.COLSON:There'd be still some area that would beprivileged but I think the privilege would be much narrower.PRESIDENT:Right.COLSON:Obviously some areas that would, nationalsecurity areas that...PRESIDENT:Right.COLSON:...might: be considered. I, I, I don'tthink really at this point in time, uh, Mr. President, that &#338; it was interesting, I, I-- Brenson said they'd had no reaction fromTennessee, none whatsoever. Uh, and I, Ijust don't think another harangue by the judge or, uh, -- I just...PRESIDENT:Well, I think the harrangue will probablyhave s-, you know, it will get another television story and we'll get a, uh, you know, uh, a little, a more the, that yo-,it'll, it will hit, hit the networks, itall-- it's like ITT. It sort of builds up over a period of time.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:35 TO 8:24 P.M.11COLSON:That's right. It doesn't, th-, th-, the--but they keep hitting at it because theyjust don't have anything else to use. Well,it's the...PRESIDENT:That's quite true.COLSON:They can make the mystery out of it and,uh...PRESIDENT:That's right. COLSON:...and that's the damn, damnable part.PRESIDENT:That's why, uh, some kind of a, even a blandstatement is probably worthwhile. I don't know how we can get it out, but maybe wehave to at one point.COLSON:Well, if, if there's anything to be,anything more to be said -- I, I almost think you're in the, uh, in the rightposture, right at the moment. The onlyquestion that I have in my mind, uh, Mr. President, is whether it's, whether it would be an advantage to you to have someone who,uh, has no, uh, background in this area atall, an-, and's had no involvement, has been on the outside, uh, brought in simply to,uh, to coordinate it all so that, uh --highly respected guy who could sort of...PRESIDENT:Well, the ideal guy would be Fortas if he,uh, hadn't been involved, huh?COLSON:Yeah, he's uh, he's badly tarred. He wouldbe very good.PRESIDENT:Yeah. He's what you need.COLSON:Yeah, that's right. Another fellow, uh, uh,that I thought about is Rankin because he's, uh, highly respected. He, he, uh...PRESIDENT:Walsh?COLSON:Yeah, 'cept, yeah Walsh.