1TRANSCRIPT PREPARED BY THE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY STAFFFOR THEHOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEEOF A RECORDING OF A MEETING BETWEENTHE PRESIDENT AND LEADERS OF THE DAIRY INDUSTRY IN THECABINET ROOMONMARCH 23, 1971, FROM 10:35 TO 11:25 A.M.July 8, 19742TRANSCRIPT PREPARED BY THE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRYSTAFF FOR THE HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE OF ARECORDING OF A MEETING BETWEEN THE PRESIDENT ANDLEADERS OF THE DAIRY INDUSTRY ON MARCH 231971, FROM 10:35 to 11:25 A.M.PRESIDENT:Let me get around to say hello to everybody.UNIDENTIFIED:All right. [Laughter]PRESIDENT:All fifty states. I know the answers[unintelligible]UNIDENTIFIED:[Laughter] [Unintelligible]PRESIDENT:Yeah, right. I know you've done a good--UNIDENTIFIED:[Unintelligible] Mr. President. PRESIDENT:All right. It's good to see you here.WHITE:Frank White from Kansas.PRESIDENT:It's good to see you. UNIDENTIFIED:Jim [unintelligible] GRIFFIN:[Unintelligible] Griffin from Oklahoma.UNIDENTIFIED:Mr. President, Mr. President, right backhere are a couple of -PRESIDENT:Oh yeah, yeah. Didn't mean to walk by you. HANSON:Carlyle Hanson, Minnesota.PRESIDENT:Right, right. Boy, I know those two states.[Laughter]UNIDENTIFIED:[Unintelligible] from California.PRESIDENT:You drink milk don't you?UNIDENTIFIED:Oh sure. [Laughter] PRESIDENT:Well, good. [Unintelligible]. Wonderfultime to leave, uh, you know, for thatfuneral for that, uh,UNIDENTIFIED:Oh, yes, yes. PRESIDENT:fellow, uh, Whitney Young. Great fellow.UNIDENTIFIED:All the way from Kentucky.UNIDENTIFIED:Yes, Mr. President. The quotation marks used in this transcript are for convenience and donot indicate verbatim quotation by the speaker.3PRESIDENT:Good to see you here. Good to see you.BESSEN:Melvin Bessen from Minnesota.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Minnesota, (unintelligible). I cantell the way you pronounce it.UNIDENTIFIED: Right. UNIDENTIFIED:[Unintelligible] of Texas.UNIDENTIFIED:How are you?UNIDENTIFIED:How are you? Good to see you. PRESIDENT:You're one of our fellows. BUTTERBRODT:John Butterbrodt, Wisconsin.PRESIDENT:Yes, glad to know you. Good to see you.[Unintelligible]UNIDENTIFIED:[Unintelligible] Illinois.PRESIDENT:Yeah, Illinois.UNIDENTIFIED: Yeah. UNIDENTIFIED: Right. PRESIDENT:Les Arends' state. We just introduced[unintelligible]UNIDENTIFIED:Unless you - PRESIDENT:Have you got any farmers in your district?Are you kidding? [Laughter]AFFELDT:Paul Affeldt [unintelligible] PRESIDENT:Yeah. BISHOP:John Bishop, Mr. President. Iowa.PRESIDENT:Right, s--, good to see you. Well, we'redelighted to have you all here. Would you all sit down. Sorry to have kept youwaiting, but I had the Secretary of theTreasury on the phone, and, uh, Secretary Hardin and I had to talk to him about a matter that might involve agriculture in anyway, you know. Consider some of those[unintelligible] and the rest, where you're fighting the good battle in the UnitedStates and for the ag--, agriculturecommunity. Let me, let me start this meeting with, uh, with uh, with one, uh, one, announcement that may be of some4interest to you. I, uh, first wanted to saythat I have been very grateful for the, thesupport that, uh, we have had in thisAdministration, uh, from this, this group. Uh, uh, I know that, uh, in Americanagriculture this is the most, uh, widely,uh, recognized -- it cuts across all of the farm organizations. It's representative of all the States. Uh, I know, too, that, uh,you are a group that are politically veryconscious. Not in any partisan sense, but that you realize that what happens inWashington, not only affecting yourbusiness, but, affecting the economy, our foreign policy and the rest, affects you. And you're willing to do something about it.And, I must say a lot of businessmen andothers that I get around this table, they'll yammer and talk a lot but they don't doanything about it. And you do, and Iappreciate that. And, I don't have to spell it out. Uh, my friend, uh, [unintelligible] and some others keep me posted as to whatyou do. The other thing I would like to sayis that, that I, uh, I appreciate the fact that this group -- definite Republicans, Democrats, in this, is, uh and this maysound somewhat -- The, uh -- Oh, in thesedays it is sort of unfashionable to talk patriotism and the rest, but I still do.Now this group is, uh, uh, is uh -- comingas it does --being sort of a bedrock, the heartland, as we call this America. The heartland exists all over America, not justin the Midwest. Uh, but, uh, that you, thatyou, have such a strong, deep, uh, commitment to this country for what, what itstands for. Uh, that and, and, and, thething that -- In many, many ways, all this I appreciate. That's a part of it, in fact, that, that, uh, we, we have s--, immediateproblems of great concern to you. But[unintelligible] I've been trying to say in a nutshell is this: That, uh, a greatsegment of agri-- , agriculture has done anenormously effective job. Its, its productivity, and, and the quality of its5product, etcetera, for America, for Americanconsumers. And for that matter, for the world. But beyond that, uh, this group alsohas done a job far, uh, uh -- going farbeyond it. Uh, it's done -- You, you've stood for those things that, uh, are deeplyneeded in this country today. And, uh, youmay next, perhaps, uh, you are a relatively small group -- I just want you to know that in this, in this office, that kind ofcommitment, that kind of support abovepartisanship, this is something that I am deeply grateful for. Uh, now, with regard to another thing, I, I, uh, missed yourmeeting in Chicago last year, as you areaware. In fact, uh, the Secretary gave a message. But, uh, I want you to know that Ihave talked to our -UNIDENTIFIED:Mr. President? PRESIDENT:In fact, that's the Vice-President's chair.That's the hot seat. [Laughter] And, uh,you're in -- the Secretary of, uh, Defense,uh, belongs here. Attorney General, uh, let's see -- That's as far as we better go.We don't want to get into that. Anyway, uh,I missed your meeting in Chicago but, uh, Cliff, uh [unintelligible] about the possibility of your next meeting. And, Iwant you to know that, uh, at your nextannual meeting, since I missed the other one, that I, uh, I'm going to do the verybest I can, lacking some kind of a foreigntrip, or something, to come to it. I'd like to -- I think that, one, you can't do each of these meetings each year, but, uh, one ofthe years while I'm in this office -- Thiswould be a pretty good year, since it's a non-election year. And, uh, I'd like to,uh, meet with your [unintelligible] I won'ttalk too long. I, uh, did want to just discuss with them some of these general thoughts that I have expressed to you today.So with that introduction, uh, that I, throwthe ball over to Cliff Hardin. And, uh, Cliff, uh -- you then may want to throw the ball back across the table. We are really6interested in hearing what your views are.Uh, we've got many decisions at the present time, as you know, of, of the[unintelligible] made regarding imports,with regard to the, uh, price supports, and all the rest. And [coughs] so, uh -HARDIN:Well, maybe I should just make a statement,Mr. President,PRESIDENT:Yes. HARDIN:that, that kind of shows you where our, ourdifferences are. We do have a couple, uh --I don't think there's any quarrel at all in what the facts are, uh, where we are on milk production, and, uh, consumption -- thesesorts of things. The situation needs to beresolved. I am told they did raise the support price of milk, uh, uh, on a moreconservative range before, at one time, andyou did so at that time for good reason. Uh, production was dropping; uh, it looked as though consumption might pick up a bit.And, knowing that the dairy industry is abusiness in which it is hard to get in and out, uh, quickly, uh, we were a littleconcerned that we might be short of milk bythe middle seventies, and that we'd better move. Well, it did work, uh, or something worked. Uh, milk production did increase abit. Uh, I understand it is too soon totell whether this is a new trend or, uh, how long it will last, but the facts are thatmilk production is running ahead of a yearago. Uh, total consumption last year was up a little, uh, per capita consumption down a bit. And the, uh, [unintelligible] had tobuy to support the price. The cost of thatis a little higher this past year than the year before. Now, that's not the realissue. The real issue is, in my mind, uh,whether we dare to raise the prices, uh, which eventually results in some increase in the retail level. Uh, maybe notimmediately, uh, because they're, they'redrafted at market price above supports now, uh, just a bit. Uh, but, uh, uh, there is a point in these agricultural commodities7where we don't control supply. Uh, whereyou can push over the hill. Where totalreturns start reducing if you boost the price up. And, uh, no one can prove whetherwe're at that point or not. It's a matterof judgment. And I think that's where our differences have, uh, come. We have talked to these men, that, uh, -- this is a timewhen I think we have to be statesmen. Wehave to look at what's best for the man that's pulling the teats out on the farm, if I can use that old expression.UNIDENTIFIED:You do it with machines.HARDIN:And, uh -- [Laughter] PRESIDENT:I know something about that. [Laughter]UNIDENTIFIED: [Unintelligible)HARDIN:But, uh, that, that's, that's the issue. Ithink we'd, I'd like to hear these menPRESIDENT: Right.HARDIN:speak up, uh, to us on, on the point.UNIDENTIFIED:Let me say that I, Harold and I stated thisearlier, so -_PRESIDENT:That's, that's really it, that's where --Cliff's really trying to get to do the right thing. In other words, the point is, the, you can get, uh, if you can get the, uh[unintelligible) come up with, you get the,uh, price too high, you get a situation there, you're -- It's down, it's -- Drop offsomething drastic, and, and, and, uh, sowe'd like to know your views.NELSON:All right. PRESIDENT:We will go around the table and tell us whatyou want.NELSON:First, Mr. President, uh, on behalf of allthese gentlemen, I want to, uh, thank youfor the opportunity. We're honored to, uh,to be here, and we know how busy you are, and, uh, we're deeply appreciative of the opportunity to be heard by you. Uh, thesegentlemen all know, uh, while, uh, manypeople in agriculture don't think of you as8having, uh, agricultural background, theyall heard, uh, what you told me on thetelephone talking to me at our meeting about the fact where, uh, [unintelligible]Congressmen [unintelligible] problemagricultural area. That, uh, you're deeply aware of the, uh, economic, uh, importance of agriculture and that you have anunsullied track record in support of, of, uh[unintelligible] agriculture. They all know that.PRESIDENT:My mother and father are both from Indian--,one from Indiana and one from Ohio.UNIDENTIFIED: Oh. PRESIDENT:And finally when they retired they went backto the farm and so I have a little bit ofagriculture background.NELSON:So at least you see -- you've seen somethingof the farmer. Uh, and the Secretary is,Secretary has stated, he is, uh -- We have no quarrel, uh, as to data, and, uh, it's, uh, strictly, uh, a matter of judgment. Wehave had an opportunity fully to discuss ourviews of -- with the Secretary. Uh, some points, uh, we have tried to reach, the points with which we, uh, assume are ofconcern to you, uh, we wish to, uh, tie thiscase right up to them. Uh, number one; [clears throat] affect on, uh, consumerprices. Well, with response to that, it'sdifferent. Uh, the, uh, level of receipt is really, uh, a market level at this time. And, uh, in our view it wouldn't set, uh,involve any increase in consumer prices.Uh, though we know that it's inevitable there will be an, an -- press event based onthis, uh, uh, existing immediate situationthere have been some increases in consumer prices of milk. And, and, uh, of course, uh, we know some more of that'll be theinvolved, uh, due to inflationary forces-which we are well aware are not your inflationary forces. Uh, number two is forthe need, uh, insofar as farmers areconcerned, uh, I, I think that's pretty9well, uh, uh, irrefuted. The, uh, feeding-milk ratio is the lowest it's been in ten years. The cost of labor, machinery, uh,fuel -- everything that farmers use to, uh,that is involved, uh, in, uh, production of milk -- uh, it's, uh, has increased, and isincreasing and they are in a real, realbind. Uh, and it's our view that irreparable harm could result unless, uh, action is taken to at least try to maintaina status quo, uh, on this now. Mr.President, we know that, uh, all the -- everybody here is your friend. And, and, uh, I know you know as we know thatsometimes it's hard to convince a friendthat what you're trying to get him to do is, uh, good for him, but that's the posturethat, uh, we come here in. Uh, [clearsthroat] the, uh -- not, not setting the support at, uh, approximately 85 per cent our figures, uh, show, would result in, uh,decrease in income to dairy farmers of ahalf billion dollars. And, uh, the, uh, cost to the Government [clears throat] ofuh, setting at that figure would be anincrease of thirty to thirty-five million dollars. so, the arithmetic we like to use on it is that if you take twenty percent ofa half billion, you've got a half, uh,you've got a hundred million dollars. And so, uh, in that view we feel that the netcost to Government would be actually nocost, and, uh, a gain. Uh, another thing, uh, that, uh, is of concern to us, as your friends, is that, uh, the timeliness of theaction. Uh, we all know that sometimes ifaction is delayed, it's not appreciated as it would be if it's taken in a timelymanner. And, uh, that pretty well, uh, sumsthe, uh, thing up, uh, as concisely as I know how, insofar as our position, uh -PRESIDENT:Let me get this, uh -- [coughing] this is,uh, this is, uh. The real point, the realpoint is this: what we put say that the, uh, the raising the thing to eighty-five doesn't bother me a bit.10NELSON:Yes, sir. Yes, sir.PRESIDENT:The question is, how are you going to look ayear from now? Now, does anybody have any other view on this? Is this the unanimousview? I, uh -- See, that's the concernthat, uh, has been expressed as to whether or not if you, you go that you are going to eighty-five [unintelligible] said that thefigure in those terms wouldUNIDENTIFIED:Yes, sir. PRESIDENT:mean the budget probably work all at thesame salary. That they're hard,UNIDENTIFIED: Yes. PRESIDENT:but it can be done. But the main point is,what is it going do in terms of, uh, ofencouraging overproduction? Isn't thatreally what you're talking about? And that produces uh, uh, uh -- Phil, you want to saysomething?CAMPBELL:Sure. The figures actually show, of courseHarold knows these figures, and I think most of the rest of them do around the table.And, this is of greatest, greatest concernto us, uh, to our office, because here and there for a year or so of Secretary Patterson, the price was raised, and thenimmediately it, it, it had to be reduced.It was reduced because of a big increase in production by about five billion pounds, andprices were reduced from three dollars andeighty-five cents a hundred in 1952 and three, down to three dollars and fifteen cents in 1954 and five, which is a seventycent reduction. The same thing happenedagain, and, uh, when Secretary Freeman came in a few years later. The price was raisedup to a high of three dollars and fortycents in 1961-62. The production was its very height of a hundred twenty-six billion pounds and then the support price had to bedropped back to a low of three dollars andeleven cents, which is a drop of twenty-nine cents a hundred. Well, now this is the pasthistory. This is what we look at. Uh, ifwe knew it wouldn't stimulate milk flow and11it wouldn't go on back up to a hundred andtwenty twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four billion pounds, I don't think anybody wouldhave any argument as to what would occur.But, and we don't know and we frankly don't think you people can know, either.NELSON:All right.CAMPBELL:[Unintelligible] because we think everybodyis in a, in a, in a vacuum here as to the point the real situation is. Because we didhave a turnaround. Now, I'm not convincedthis is a true turnaround personally, although we have an increase of a billion pounds, because we did have a reduction incow milk, still, last year and I don't think--PRESIDENT:Uh, uh, a reduction?CAMPBELL:A reduction not only in milk cows --UNIDENTIFIED:[unintelligible] total numbers CAMPBELL:So we don't really, really -- I think theincrease is a result of, of, milder weatherin the winter time which has quite a lot todo with production, Mr. President. Now mild winter you get much better milk flow than you do on a very severe winter.PRESIDENT:Yes.CAMPBELL:Well, in the previous winter, there had beena very severe winter. Last winter was amild one, and then the problems of forageand and feeding and so on.PRESIDENT:So that, so there's, there's another thingwe can focus on.CAMPBELL:Yeah. Yeah, and, uh, but, uh, we don't knowthat this is a real turnaround, because the conscious decision of dairymen to increase,uh [unintelligible]. The, uh, so that,that, really is, uh, is, uh, where we, uh, we're in the dark and we felt as though a little bit more time should be given to findout if this is a real turnaround, because ifwe were to raise the prices up to about five dollars from the present four sixty-six andwe were to jump back up to a hundred and12twenty, three, or four, five billion pounds,well, we would have -- unless per capitaconsumption increased, unless increasing population took it up in the marketplace, the same amount of milk that cost sixhundred million dollars in 19, uh, 62, wouldcost close to a billion dollars because of the difference in price was just about fivedollars instead of just over three dollars.Uh, and, uh, this is, this is, a matter of real concern that, that we have. We are just in the dark. If this is not a realturnaround, well, we still got room to raiseprices.PRESIDENT:All right. Who'd like to talk?HARRISON:Mr. President, these organizations whichare, have discussed with my clients represent about eighty-thousand dairy producers. First thing I had to learn whenthey came to us was that the producer is notthe cow, but the farmer, so I've had to learn a lot since then. We think that under the base plans which your administration hasbeen so helpful and the Secretary ofAgriculture so helpful to promote it, plus the new promotional legislation whichpermits money to be spent for certain typesof promotion, which your administration also has enthusiastically supported. That so far, except the last week or two, there hasbeen almost nothing that the dairy industryhas wanted that this administration has not been pretty enthusiastically for. Uh, thecombination of those factors plus theturnaround the last two quarters for last year --putting the two together, the dairy industry is doing a more effective job thanit's ever done before in controllingproduction. But, I suppose as a lawyer and sitting in the Attorney General's seat I'dhave to say that there, that, uh, SecretaryCampbell is right to this extent, there's nobody that can absolutely swear on a stack of bibles and absolutely guarantee that thisturnaround might not be permanent, because -PRESIDENT: [Unintelligible]13UNIDENTIFIED:We don't know absolutely for sure.HARRISON:That's right. UNIDENTIFIED: No --HARRISON:But, uh, Mr. President, the odds are that itwill.CAMPBELL:But the weath -- Mr. President, the weatherwill even out. The weather is not -- that'sthe great factor.PRESIDENT:Yes. CAMPBELL:It will not stimulate total overproduction.PRESIDENT:That's just -- Check first.NELSON:But, uh [clears throat] the analysis beingmade are the same people who've been rightnow, seven years in a row. Uh, in any casethat, uh, that, this is not a turnaround. That's their projections. And, uh, we have been right -- I mean they've got an enviabletrack record, that this is not, uh, a turn-around, And, uh, as they, uh, I forget whether it was Secretary Hardin or Secretary Campbell, I believe it was SecretaryCampbell, pointed out that, uh, there hasbeen a turnaround in total, uh, consumption. I mean there has been, uh,PRESIDENT:Right.NELSON:a change for the better. PRESIDENT:Yeah. [Severalvoices]:Yeah.NELSON:There is now, I don't say that's a turnaround, either. PRESIDENT:More, more consumption.NELSON:Yes sir and, uh, as Mr., uh, Harrisonpointed out, uh, we, uh, we do have the means now to do more about controlling consumption with, uh, production, with this14Base-plan legislation, under this[unintelligible] legislation. Over a sixstate area of this organization, we have voluntarily invoked base plans which have demonstrated the ability to tailorproduction to the consumers it meets. Now,this new legislation we feel we can spread to these other areas so we have that goingfor us that we hadn't had before. We have,one additional item, which is very close to the Secretary's, uh, heart -- I'll use a more better term, which will be acceptableto him, and that is, this promotionlegislation. Uh, this route has demonstrated this. He says eighty-thousanddairy farmers representing thirty billionpounds of milk, is willing to spend money for promotion. And we're now embarked upon a program developing a promotional andmarketing program that are tied togetherwhich is the first time this has ever happened. But, if we're going to be able to take the money to do this, we've got to getit at a time when we are at least holdingour own, and not in a time of falling, uh, uh, regarding land prices.PRESIDENT:Yeah, one thing about that I insisted -- alittle aside -- is that, uh, the, uh, the, to get the, uh, I don't know what, what can be done about it, but the medical professiondon't really know much about cholesterol.Uh, that you're being a little more cooperative, talking about it. I meanthat's -- If you fix a glass of milk andhave a heart attack; well, I can think of a lot of other things that's going to give you a heart attack. A lot sooner, too.[Laughter]PRESIDENT:But, uh, incidentally, I, uh, do happen todrink a lot of milk. Well, but, uh, uh, --What, what's the medical profession doing inthat respect?NELSON:Uh -- PRESIDENT:There is cholesterol that goes up and down,you know. They say, "No eggs, no milk, no15[unintelligible]."UNIDENTIFIED:Now --PRESIDENT:They're not sure. UNIDENTIFIED:Yes. PRESIDENT:Cholesterol, as you know, is related tostress, it's related to -- You, you'll havea test made one, uh, one week, or, uh, above normal, and next week, uh, [unintelligible]be below, which, uh, uh, maybe you weredrinking the things that were, other people drink here, uh --[Laughter]NELSON:We've had some breakthroughs on research inthe last six months. It, uh -- For the first time it appears to be, uh, uh,favorable [unintelligible] reports and soon. And I've just formed a new organization that has, uh, wide-spread support among the producer organizations, that is, uh,providing research money. And we're talkingabout basic research, pure research, uh, for the first time, which we --PRESIDENT:You are?NELSON:Yes sir, yes sir, yes sir; we are. For pureresearch. And, uh we feel that this can't help but, uh [unintelligible and goodresults.PRESIDENT:You've got one point. It's simply not toget into your business at all, but, uh, in your promotion, every --, everybody is goingfor gimmicks these days, you know.NELSON:Yes, sir. PRESIDENT:Take, take sleep inducers. Now, uh, uh, anarticle in Reader's Digest a couple ofmonths ago in regard to sleeping pills --enormous use of them -- But, but almost any, any, uh, person who really studies sleepwill tell you probably that, that, thatlacking a pill -- I mean which some, which has side effects, which many times are not[unintelligible] -- the best thing you cando is milk. Any kind of thing, you can16just, just a glass of milk. You don't haveto talk with it or anything like that. Itcould be warm. It could be, uh, tepid, or it could be cold, but, uh, but it has a certain soothing effect. Uh, you get peoplestarted on that.UNIDENTIFIED:Well, that's PRESIDENT:And that's, that's my marketing picture.[Laughter]UNIDENTIFIED:It didn't help sleep yesterday. PRESIDENT:I already got that. [Laughter] Look, butlet me tell you that the sleep problem is ofcourse the, it's, uh, it's, uh, an Americanpsychosis at the moment. In all advanced societies, over fifty percent of theAmerican people that are adults, uh, at thistime take some form of sedative. Uh, now, here's, here, here's, here's the mountain. You can go to work all the time, maybe -- ifsome -- sometimes you've just got so manyproblems you're not going to sleep. But, that's all psychological, too. If you get people thinking that a glass of milk isgoing to make them sleep, I mean, it'll dojust as well as a sleeping pill. It's all in the head.GRIFFIN:Mr. President?PRESIDENT:Yeah. GRIFFIN:Speaking as a dairy farmer, the differencein this four dollars and sixty-six cents andthe five dollars is just about your breakingpoint as to whether the average dairy farmer in Oklahoma makes it or doesn't make it.Now, uh, I believe that I'm as familiar withdairy operations as anybody in the state of Oklahoma. Uh, in fact all of the farm programs we've had over all these years.But, we're a unique bunch of people, thedairy farmers are, uh -- We started out back when we could just use ten gallon cans andan old cooler and get by. Mr. President,that doesn't exist today. The, the inspectors say you have to have tile walls. You got to have the latest equipment. Uh,17you're talking a-bout, uh,- in our loancorporation -- I was looking the other day,-- in our average size loan to dairy farmers today is about thirty-nine thousand dollars loan. [Unintelligible]HARRISON:[Unintelligible]. That's a loan corporationthat's owned by the farmers.PRESIDENT: Sure.GRIFFIN:Look, those, those farmers can'tUNIDENTIFIED: Co-op. GRIFFIN:Mr. President, but, but, we're -- I'm, I'mreally conscious of this thing because I'mthe fellow that, that approves those loansand I can see this gradually growing. And, uh, I, I, can see the Mr. Secretary's, uh,problem here of, if you just knuckle downwith it -- cost us -- and not make us any money. If we had bigger farmers that has to make "x" amount of dollars, and if he gets ahigher price, he'll take those dollars or ifhe doesn't get a higher price he's going to fix you enough milk out there to get them anyway. So it helps both ways. But, I, Ican see his point, but you can, if you gotto have so many dollars and it takes more pounds to get it, why, he's going to producethose pounds, Mr. President. And that, andthat'sUNIDENTIFIED:Based on a short [unintelligible) basis. GRIFFIN:Right, but I'm talking from a -- You'veheard these professional people, but I'mtalking from, uh, from a dairy farmer because that's exactly what I am.UNIDENTIFIED:Would you say you would not milk any morecows than necessary. In other words, you don't milk an extra cow just because you like to.GRIFFIN:You, you would, you don't you're not lookingfor a job, I'll tell you.UNIDENTIFIED:I think that's the point. What is honest.UNIDENTIFIED:Yeah, what could they do.UNIDENTIFIED:Make it again. You mean that, uh18UNIDENTIFIED:I think the whole point in this is thatdairymen, because of inflation, a necessityof certain return of income -- he's looking for so much.UNIDENTIFIED: Gross.UNIDENTIFIED:He's not milking gross. He's not milkingadditional heads of cow just becuase he has a love for the dairy industry cow.PRESIDENT: Okay.UNIDENTIFIED:Although he does have a love. PRESIDENT:But, uh, so you're -- Are you suggestingthen that a raise in the price in, in thesupport is not going to mean, uh,necessarily -UNIDENTIFIED:We don't think it'll mean necessary to theincrease, because he has judgment.PRESIDENT: Yeah. UNIDENTIFIED:And I'm PRESIDENT:Sure, sure, sure.GRIFFIN:But, uh --PRESIDENT:Really, what we'll really get down to hereis psycho is, is psychology.UNIDENTIFIED:Psychology of it.PRESIDENT:Isn't it? And that's somethingUNIDENTIFIED: The dairyman today has changed. PRESIDENT:You fellows know more about than we do.UNIDENTIFIED:The dairyman today has changed over yearsago.PRESIDENT:Your, your judgment on the psychology isthat he is likely not to, to yieldproduction.UNIDENTIFIED: Absolutely. UNIDENTIFIED:Yeah. He isn't one of them.PARR:People around the group -- we're in about ahundred and twenty different organizations.PRESIDENT:Uh Am. PARR:They consolidated now just recently. Imean, this is the last two, three years.19PRESIDENT:Yeah.PARR:This eighty-thousand are now -- we're at onetime a hundred-twenty different board of directors.PRESIDENT:Yeah.PARR:We just got together. Now, uh, as, as yousay, uh, as somebody said as Marion said a while ago that, uh, this administration hasbeen, uh -- We publicized this, uh, uh --You've been one of the best administrations we've had. Just put it plain. I come from long roots Democrats, as you well know, fromArkansas. I'm just being very frank aboutit. But, uh, this, uh, we got, uh, moreUNIDENTIFIED:There's some hope for him, Mr. President.[Laughter]UNIDENTIFIED:Not much. PARR:I was also campaign manager for John PaulHammerschmidt.UNIDENTIFIED: Yeah.PRESIDENT:That's right, PARR:In the third dis--, district. And the pointhere is that all of a sudden we get togetherand ride them real good, and, uh, boy, this,this should be a real terrific blow. We're trying to get in a position of self-help.PRESIDENT:Um. hm.PARR:Which we're doing. UNIDENTIFIED:We're close to it. PARR:We're closer to it than we've ever been.PRESIDENT:Self-help.PARR:Self-help it is. We, we eliminate the, uh,our, our dogmatic type of position offighting one another.PRESIDENT:That seems important. PARR:And, and the, and the PRESIDENT: Yeah.PARR:support program we want to get in position20so we can run our own self-help supportprogram.UNIDENTIFIED: Right. PARR:[Unintelligible] sit there and get it now,that we talked about it before. And, uh, sowe get all these organizations together and,and here we are. And costs are still going up, and, and all of a sudden our -- startswith these people start looking up, says,"Well, what happened to your -- what happened?"PRESIDENT:Um hm.PARR:Then we're, then our organization structure,an organization structure, we cannot get it all, uh -- We can't keep on moving towardsit, see, by consolidating, getting ourselves-- eliminating our inefficient plants like we're doing right now.UNIDENTIFIED: [Unintelligible]UNIDENTIFIED: Right.PRESIDENT:When you say eliminate your, uh tell meabout that. Do you -- How do you do that?PARR:Well, see you've gotPRESIDENT:How do you get -- Do you, your members dothat,PARR:No.PRESIDENT:or -- You can't tell a guy toPARR:Oh, no, no. What I'm talking about is amilk plant, say, in Minnesota. You got one every seven miles.UNIDENTIFIED:Manufacturing plant.PARR:Manufacturing -- UNIDENTIFIED:Owned by processors.PARR:Owned by processors.UNIDENTIFIED:They're owned, they were owned by co-ops. UNIDENTIFIED: Co-ops. UNIDENTIFIED:Farmer owned.PRESIDENT:I see.21NELSON:And it's a very inefficient thing, see,because they don't have volume, uh, to doit.PRESIDENT:So how do you, how you do get that done? PARR:We, we, we put those consolidationstogether. We say, "Okay, you were 'x'cooperative and you [unintelligible] percent to this plant, and now we're all together,so there's no use of having that plantanymore. Let's cut that volume over here at another town."PRESIDENT:Um hm.PARR:And make it -- So we do that, then we raisethe productivityPRESIDENT:Um hm.PARR:of our own opera-- uh, ability to pay-in acooperative, see.PRESIDENT:Wha-- why are -- You're able to do that nowbecause you've brought the organizationstogether.PARR:Right. UNIDENTIFIED: Efficiency. PRESIDENT:When did the organizations -- when were theybrought together?PARR:Last years. PRESIDENT:The lastUNIDENTIFIED:-- two years.PRESIDENT:That's quite an achievement. PARR:It's not an experiment. UNIDENTIFIED: [Unintelligible]UNIDENTIFIED:Don't say that while I'm sitting here.PRESIDENT:Oh, I won't go that far. [Laughter] Matterof fact, the room is not tapped. [Laughter]Forgot to do that. [Laughter]UNIDENTIFIED:Mr. President, I think probably so far asexperience is concerned, I've had about as much in the dairy business as anyone. I wasborn and raised there and haven't been awayfrom it since. And, I think I know what22dairy farmers are thinking and I think Iknow what kind of a job it is to getinformation, communicate with dairy farmers. As it's been mentioned here we have done remarkably well during this administrationgetting the, uh, check-off programs as wecall it, for advertising, promotion, and the, and the class-one base plan. Now,these plans. We want to augment them, wewant to put them into, into force. But as long as these dairy farmers feel that the price of milk is declining and, uh, goingdown, it's going to be difficult to sellthem and use these programs that we've already gotten you, ya, yeah, by workingwith the Administration, the Administrationworking with us. Uh, these dairy farmers are not a peculiar lot, or anything like that. They're just good businessmen. Theylive it seven days a week, sixteen hours aday. And I, I think that, uh, with all due respect to the economists, uh, they have overlooked a lot of the things in theeconomy because I come up through a periodwhen they said: "Well if you get four dollars a hundred for milk they'll get it onthe rocks." Well, they didn't, becausepeople went into other activities, occupations, because they don't like these hours. And unless the individual isdedicated to the dairy business, he's notgoing to stay there that way. Now, I'll admit that, uh, the increase in prices -- Imean the, uh, increase in production isgoing up to, uh, prevails now and that, uh, it's a matter of facts and figures, beyond a doubt, but that it's going to influencethings that much. Experience has taught meyou just don't do it.ALAGIA:Well, another point, Mr. President, is thatin the Southeast with these, uh, dairymen,here, uh, uh, they're very conscious that they're, uh, uh, caught in this inflation which is not, not certainly yours. And, uh,uh, theirUNIDENTIFIED: [Unintelligible]23ALAGIA:costs are up and, uh, yet their prices, uh,uh, are now, because of support, are goingto be going down. It will cost them uh, uh -- Well, they're just going to lose ground and they're going to be, uh, to put it, uh,brutally frank, I'm satisfied that there'llbe more dairymen going out of business. That's for sure.PRESIDENT:What part of the Southeast are you referringto? The Georgia, South CarolinaALAGIA: Kentucky, UNIDENTIFIED:Tenne--, Tennessee.ALAGIA: Virginia,PRESIDENT: Kentucky. ALAGIA:Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama,UNIDENTIFIED: Delaware.ALAGIA: Georgia. UNIDENTIFIED: Tennessee. ALAGIA:Tennessee. Uh, and uhPRESIDENT:That's uh, that's pretty, pretty heavy milkproducing area, is it not?ALAGIA:Well, we have, -- It's approximately about,uh, six million pounds of -- we market ayear, in Dairymen Incorporated. And there'sabout fourteen or fifteen billion Grade-A pounds in the Southeast. Uh, and, uh, we'resatisfied in our judgment, as well as in thejudgment of these other men at the table, that, uh, uh, uh, production isn't going to be, uh, uh, going, uh -- It is not going tobe on the increase.PRESIDENT:Let me ask you, uh, let me, let me come tothe key point. Suppose it does? Let's, uh-- What, what do you think you'd do then?What?ALAGIA:I, I think, Mr. President, in the, uh, inthe latter part --PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] Wouldn't you hate to haveto do something next year?UNIDENTIFIED:I think the dairymen will take care of24themselves.ALAGIA:I think we can take care --UNIDENTIFIED:They'll take care of themselves. UNIDENTIFIED:Base plans UNIDENTIFIED: Individually.UNIDENTIFIED:We have to put your base plans in[unintelligible] This is the self-help, that, uhGRIFFIN:Mr. President, we have in Texas, Oklahoma,Arkansas and part of New Mexico base-plan now [unintelligible] the total net transaction in Kansas is total net[unintelligible]PRESIDENT:Yeah. GRIFFIN:But, but it's, uh, doing an excellent joband, and that's the point that we aregetting over when we get over this hump, that's exactly what -- We don't want no hand out, uh, we want to control exactly what theconsumer needs and that's all.NELSON:And, it'll give good -- Uh, I think it'sutterly, uh, uh, I think everybody would have to agree it's utterly impossible to,or, uh, unthinkable that production wouldturnaround so dramatically as, uh, to create a problems by next year.PRESIDENT:Let me ask, Uh, uh, [unintelligible] theproblems create [unintelligible] next year. I wondered what process were, was available. Uh, you, you really mean that yourorganiz--, that you were so well organizedthat you think you might be able to, uh, do something.[SeveralVoices]: Yes, sir. Yes, sir.PRESIDENT:And you couldn't have done that, say, when,uh, Ezra Benson [unintelligible]UNIDENTIFIED: [Unintelligible]UNIDENTIFIED:No, not, uh, when Ezra Benson or[unintelligible] Orville Freeman.UNIDENTIFIED: [Unintelligible]25PRESIDENT:Why, this is very important, that's why --What are y-Uh, this, this is, uh, thismeans, uh, uh, a new back to the, uh [unintelligible] did not have before.UNIDENTIFIED:Yes,that's correct.UNIDENTIFIED:Uh --GRIFFIN:Mr. Secretary, I'd like to say that this --What you just said [unintelligible]UNIDENTIFIED:[Unintelligible] not the Secretary[unintelligible]UNIDENTIFIED:I'm sorry. PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]Yeah. Excuse me. Go ahead.UNIDENTIFIED:No, that's, that's; uh, uh --PRESIDENT:You did -- I did -- I didn't realize thoughthat you you really think you canUNIDENTIFIED: Yes.UNIDENTIFIED:They demonstrated in, uh -- UNIDENTIFIED: [Unintelligible] PRESIDENT:Go ahead.UNIDENTIFIED:No, I was just going to say, you talk aboutthis psychology --PRESIDENT:Yeah, that's really it. UNIDENTIFIED:Yes. We've got the responsePRESIDENT:The individual person, who is the freeenterprise system,UNIDENTIFIED: Right.PRESIDENT:the guy [unintelligible]. He's going to gobreaking out there. Uh, like, for example, I've been -- Well, uh, I tell you we're talking about inflation out there, you know.You know, one of the basic causes, one ofthe major, uh, uh, leaders of the inflation -- the construction trade. I had to take avery hard decision [unintelligible]UNIDENTIFIED: Right. UNIDENTIFIED:Yes, of course. GRIFFIN:Right.26PRESIDENT:the other day. All right, it had to bedone, because they had a twenty-two percentincrease since last year. Andso, uh, these are my good frien carpenters, and the painters and all those -- They're good Americans, and decentpeople, but some of their leaders went toofar in this thing, Davis-Bacon thing in effect said to them that as far as the government's fourteenmillion dollars worth of contracts areconcerned, that we will not be bound by a law passed in 1933 that requires us to go to a union contractor. We will goto a non-unioncontractor because the union contractor haspriced himself out of the market,Now, so therefore, it has a to the psychological. The problem they'vegot -- It's not -- And, uh, I sit, I sitaround with their national leaders here, but they got local leaders, and others that say, "Well, gee, I can't speak for that fellow-Oh, oh, that guy up in New York is tootough. That fellow in Kansas City, Kansas City one was too tough" -the Chicago one, the Omaha one. Now, the real question thatI am asking here is quite fundamental iswhether you fellows will be that, that, I mean, you've got that kind of cooperation.UNIDENTIFIED:Well --PRESIDENT:Do you want to talk about that? UNIDENTIFIED:Yes. I, I, uh, we're, uh -- What you'relooking at here is, uh, in this group, uh,dairy farmers, about twenty states, and mostof the heavy, heavy milk production areas, I guess, except out on the West Coast.PRESIDENT:They're in part of your organization, aren'tthey? The West Coast?UNIDENTIFIED:No, no. PRESIDENT:They're not?UNIDENTIFIED:Not yet.UNIDENTIFIED:Not yet.[Laughter]PRESIDENT:Why do they keep you, I mean[unintelligible] get lawyers from the27Midwest.UNIDENTIFIED:We're working on it, Mr. President. Twoyear, uh, profits, the two year profits of California that, uh, make it difficult at this stage to bring them in.[Laughter]UNIDENTIFIED:Mr. President. UNIDENTIFIED:I don't think he bought that.PRESIDENT:Oh, I understand. Oh, that's right.California there is a problem. I know Land-o-Lakes. Go ahead.UNIDENTIFIED:Yes, they do.PRESIDENT:I know, I know the difference.[Laughter]PRESIDENT:Let's get your view.UNIDENTIFIED:But, but I think the psychology that you'retalking about, uh, is important.PRESIDENT: Yeah. UNIDENTIFIED:And I think it needs the organizationalstructure that we now have, plus what is onthe drawing board for continuing this consolidation move. Uh, that we can be, uh, the spreader of this psychology as far asdairy farmers are concerned. Uh, there's,uh -- We have this authority as far as the classical need for it, you give us. Theother thing that's going on in the, uh,non-Grade-A statement of this dairy industry is that we have, uh, standards that are being imposed on these dairy farmers at thefarm where they're not going to be able toproduce milk in the barn yard, under a shade tree. Going to have to have facilities.So, they're going to have to make adecision, many of these ten cow, fifteen caw operations, as to whether they're going to be a dairyman or not when these standardsare imposed. And many of them are going toget out. They're going to say my age is such, the average age is about fifty-six --He's, he's just going to get out of it.28PRESIDENT:Sure.UNIDENTIFIED:Mr. President, here's what the real catch toit is. You ask the question: "Can -- Do we have the organization to put base-plans in?" Uh, uh, the big challenge here is, if youchallenge us, you say ''Yes," but youreconsider this idea of proprietorship and at at same time you've got to be told thatproduction, that we don't want to drop --doesn't do much in '72. The answer is an unqualified "yes." If we move it up to a hearing immediately the cooperation of theadministration and [unintelligible] from theCanadian border to the Gulf of Mexico right down through the, the middle part of thiscountry plus the Southeast. That, we gotthe capability of doing.NELSON:That's demonstrated, uh, Mr. President, uh,I want to repeat. Uh, we demonstrated ourability to do this and in six states plusthe statesUNIDENTIFIED: Right. NELSON:that he just referred to. And you maywonder, well, you sold farmers on this, uh,uh, idea, number one, because it works in their best interests. But number two, thisbase immediately becomes worth money tothem. The base that they hold. They, they increase their capital, uh, worth, by many cows. To do thisHARDIN:Uh, there's a little problem there. It's,it'syou create a value by government order.NELSON:WellHARDIN:And, uh, in a sense.NELSON:Yeah. Well, not when you, uh, uh, well, youmay say that, but of course, we've had them, you know, on these states we're talkingabout now without government orders withinregulated areas for the government, uh, uh, where you have federal orders. And, uh, uhHARDIN:Yeah. We, we, we do have some protection inthe lawUNIDENTIFIED: Yes.29HARDIN:on them against this [unintelligible] risk.CAMPBELL:Yes, you might get it.UNIDENTIFIED: Right. NELSON:Yes, there's, uh, so, uh, I, I, I, I reallydon't view that as a problem. I'd say thatthe, uh -- illegally we think, that, uh, werepresent a rather significant geographical area, where there's sufficient cohesionamong dairy producers to put in thesebase-plans. And, uh, one of the names that you mentioned, Land-O-Lakes, that's not a part of our controlled organization, but Ithink they'd have to follow us, on this. Ifyou really got into this base thing.UNIDENTIFIED:Mr. President, uh, I'd like to make a point.I think you have some [unintelligible] herewith regards to the relationship of the Fifties, uh, during the Benson Administration, and the situation then ascompared to today. At that time, there wasquite a potential of milk in the country that wasn't being marketed and that potential is almost nil today. So that the,the, the price structure will not have thesame reflection as it did at that time, because there was a lot of non-marketed milkthat came to market with that pricesituation at that time. And the cow numbers today are the lowest in almost a century.UNIDENTIFIED: [Unintelligible]UNIDENTIFIED:Do you want to move that production up --takes cowsUNIDENTIFIED:And its more important than that if you goback and look at the [unintelligible]interest and the calves are not there.UNIDENTIFIED:There -- that's right. There, the, uh -- UNIDENTIFIED:Reflects the country.PRESIDENT:Tell me about this going into the dairybusiness. Uh, how big an operation is it?UNIDENTIFIED:It's a high capital item.UNIDENTIFIED:That's, uh--30UNIDENTIFIED:But, but, well I'm going to let one of thesedairy farmers talk to that [unintelligible]PRESIDENT:What about that? UNIDENTIFIED:Well, Mr. President, it's a very expensivebusiness to get in any more.PRESIDENT:In other words if somebody's going to --First of all, you've got people in the business. Uh, the question is what can theydo to prevent -- The question, what aboutsomebody going into the business. What does it cost? Is it a big deal? A hundred thousand dollars?UNIDENTIFIED:At least that.UNIDENTIFIED:A hundred thousand won't do it. It takesmore than a hundred thousand dollars.PRESIDENT:It does?UNIDENTIFIED:It takes PRESIDENT:In other words, it's not a business that canbe expansible particularly by new peoplecoming in. [Several voices]:[Unintelligible]GREGG:Mr. President, back in the Fifties, uh, uh,when the costs weren't such, it wasn't anything for a man with a few cows, to, to[unintelligible] and go into business. Thisno longer exists.PRESIDENT:Um hm.UNIDENTIFIED:And you see, and they say it costs [Severalvoices]:[Unintelligible]GREGG:Mr. President, one more point that I wouldlike to bring out. It affects what you saidat the very beginning when you came to theroom. And that this is the philosophy of living in our rural communities. Basically,Mr. President, I'm from Iowa, and, as youdrive along the road, you see farmstead after farmstead empty, falling into disrepair, in the, these changing times.And the exodus from the farm sphere has beento the urban areas. We want, not from subsidies or anything else, uh, but investedwith our own self-help, to preserve this wayof life out there, because this is really31where the, as you said, the rock-ribheritage, the religious heritage, is there.had, uh, I live in that country and I love it and I wouldn't want to live anywhere else, but we want to preserve it, and weneed this help.UNIDENTIFIED: [Unintelligible] GREGG:This is, this is, uh, very, very importantat this time.PRESIDENT:Well, I want to preserve it, because that --It's, uh, not only important economically to the country, that's important everywhere.It's far more important spiritually, infact.GREGG:Right,PRESIDENT:I refer to spiritually in the broadest senseof the -- And I [unintelligible] mean by that, the cities are all corrupt. People placed in there are not -- But I do meanthat you, you, show me a country that losesits rural heartland. It sometimes, inevitably, it almost always follows that it loses its character. And, uh, and, uh, it'sfunny, this afternoon, in my view, a, a, uh,the, this, this solid, uh -- Well, the new frontier basically is now in the center ofthe country, not on either coast. Closerthough, because in a sense, uh, because the center is emptied out, and now we have to find a way of not only to see that that --We have all the farmers out there, but waysthat you can have your rural communities keel) up with us there, and so forth so thatpeople who live in that part of the countryand find the schools, the doctors and all the other things that make life worthwhile that's what we're all for. On that point, Ithink we'll have very good -- Well, 1, 1appreciate this, uh, chance to talk to you and we, uh, I always try to, uh, adistinguished group comes up here to giveyou a-little, uh, momento. Today, uh, you're going, you're going to get the press, uh. [Laughter) Uh, all kidding aside, Ihave some Presidential cufflinks for32everyone here and, uh, with the PresidentialSeal. And, uh, doesn't have anybody, anyPresident's name on it, so you can wear it whatever you are. [Laughter] And this, since your wives will wonder where youreally were today, uh, you can, uh it's alittle bow that she can wear if she likes, and the Presidential Seal. Uh, they're, uh,they're rather nice little trinkets. The,uh, the, I think the, the main, the main point about them is that they look more expensive than they are. Uh, you know theold story is that your children will tellyou when they go to school, that kings and emperors are -- only give gifts of gold.Well, these are not gold, but onlyPresidents can give them. [Laughter] Thank you very much.UNIDENTIFIED:Thank you.NELSON:Mr. President, one thing you didn't respondto was, uh, your statement that you'd said privately, uh, considerably earlier at today's meeting, that you wanted to attendour next meeting. We're looking forward toyour being there, and we'll tell you now we'll have thirty-five thousand dairyfarmers with their wives and families.PRESIDENT:Who's going to milk the cows?[Laughter]NELSON:Well, the cows are going to [unintelligible][Laughter]UNIDENTIFIED:Harold should have told you last Monday:we're going to cut production. [Laughter]We're not going to milk them.UNIDENTIFIED:Mr. Secretary