TRANSCRIPT PREPARED BY THE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY STAFFFOR THEHOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEEOF A RECORDING OF A MEETING AMONGTHE PRESIDENT, JOHN DEAN, JOHN EHRLICHMAN AND H. R.HALDEMANONMARCH 21, 1973, FROM 5:20 TO 6:01 P.M.July 8, 1974TRANSCRIPT PREPARED BY THE IMPEACHMENTINQUIRY STAFF FOR THE HOUSE JUDICIARYCOMMITTEE OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING AMONG THE PRESIDENT, JOHN DEAN, JOHN EHRLICHMAN AND H.R. HALDEMAN ON MARCH 21, 1973, FROM5:20 TO 6:0l P.M.*PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] to this morning.EHRLICHMAN:Well, you go round and round and you come upwith all questions and no answers. Backed up where you were at when you started.PRESIDENT:That's where we were this morning. Well,uh, anything additional to rush here?EHRLICHMAN:Well, I, I just don't think that theimmunity thing will wash.PRESIDENT:And the Grand Jury.EHRLICHMAN:It may, if you come to HALDEMAN:Well, the immunity [unintelligible]problems.EHRLICHMAN:Well under this procedure of John's, uh,John's grand jury package was, uh, was, uh, uh, to give immunity, you know, to various witnesses who go before the Grand Jury. I,I think we have to figure that that is outof the, picture. I just don't think thatit, that it can be carried off._______________*The quotation marks used in this transcript are forconvenience and do not indicate verbatimquotation by the speaker.HALDEMAN:Well, either the Grand Jury or you can tryby setting up a special panel, 'cause you--DEAN:The special panel could investigate andreport back on the whole thing. Have them [unintelligible] immunize witnesses so thatall the information can be obtained, and,uh--PRESIDENT:Maybe the appointment of a Presidentialpanel?DEAN:I would think it would be too -- well thatwould take special legislation to get immunity powers, whereasPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:the Department of Justice right nowpossesses the, the ability to grantimmunity.PRESIDENT:Well, let's take the Grand Jury withoutimmunity, what about that?DEAN:Well --PRESIDENT:That was your idea of getting out of it.EHRLICHMAN:Yeah. Well, I think that, uh, uh, is stilla possibility. It leads to some very drastic results. Counsel over here readsthe statutes, and, uh, there are awfulopportunities for indictment, and, uh -- So, uh,-2DEAN:Yeah.EHRLICHMAN:you end up with people in and out of theWhite House indicted for various, for various offenses. [Unintelligible] overlaid.HALDEMAN:[Unintelligible] still plenty of these guys[unintelligible]EHRLICHMAN:That's right. Now the other, now the otherroute--PRESIDENT:That is, if we're not, not mentioning that,uh-EHRLICHMAN:I wouldn't, uh, I wouldn't spend too muchtime with that. I, I give up there. Uh,the other route would be two papers, or possibly three, and these papers would .say,"Mr. President, you asked me about thisthing. Here's my, here's my review of the facts." And, uh, I think we disagree as to whether or not that's a viable option ornot. I, I think you could get out a fairlycredible document that would stand up, and that will have the effect of trimming the scope, and would have the effect of maybebecoming the battleground on a reducedscope, which I think is important. But, uh, the big danger in the Ervin hearings, as Isee it, is that they will, they will runout, uh, leads into areas that, that it would be better not to have to get into. But, uh, if, uh, Baker, you know, under hisdirectionUh, and if you could put out abasic-3-document that would, uh, define a limitedset of issues, uh, even if you, you don'ttry to concentrate on target, you just might have something, some -- but obviously, you haven't any way of imposing a lot of sPRESIDENT:But, does, uh, does anybody, uh, reallythink, really think that really we should do nothing? That's the other, I mean, that's,that's the option, period. If, uh -- keepfighting it out on this ground if it takes all summer.HALDEMAN:Which it will.PRESIDENT:That's the other thing, whether we're goingto, say, to contain the thing.EHRLICHMAN:Well, we've talked about that. We talkedabout, uh, possible opportunities in theSenate, that, that may turn up that we don't foresee now. In other words, that you go in and start playing for the odds. Keep tryingto put out fires here and there. Theproblem of the Hunt thing and, and, uh, possibly McCord and some of these other people breaking is there's no, uh, there is,there's no, uh, sign off on that ever. Itjust goes on and on and on.-4PRESIDENT:That's right. Well if that's the case then,uh, what is your view as to what we shoulddo now about Hunt, and so forth?EHRLICHMAN:Well, my, my view is that, that, uh, Hunt'sinterests lie in getting a pardon if he can.That ought to be, somehow or another, one ofthe options that he is most particularly concerned about. Uh, his, his indirectcontacts with John don't contemplate that atall. Well, maybe they, maybe they contemplate it, but they say there's going [unintelligible]PRESIDENT:I know.HALDEMAN:That's right. EHRLICHMAN:They think that that's already understood.PRESIDENT:Yeah.EHRLICHMAN:Uh-- PRESIDENT:I mean he's got to get that by Christmastime.DEAN:That's right. But, uh--EHRLICHMAN:And if he doesn't, obviously, uh, he's gotto figure it gets crosswise.PRESIDENT:If that blows.EHRLICHMAN:If that blows and, and that's, it seems tome, that the, uh --although at lea-- It obviously is understood, that-5he has really gone over the ground with hisattorney that's in there.PRESIDENT:However, can he, by talking, uh, getpardoned? Get, get clemency from the court?DEAN:That's one of the options he's obviouslylooking at now. He comes in and tells thisjudge before sentencing, "Your Honor" -- and the judge is likely to call him in beforesentencing -- and says, "Your Honor, I amwilling to tell all. Uh, I don't want to go to jail. I have pleaded guilty to an offense. I'll take that plea. I don't wantto go to jail. I'll cooperate with you andthe government in any way possible. I'll tell you everything I know.&#64258; I think thejudge probably, uh, uh, would look upon thatvery favorably, it would pay somebody to tell him.EHRLICHMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:So then, now -- so the point we have to, thebridge you have to cut, uh, cross there is, uh, which you've got to cross, I understand, quite soon, is whether, uh, we, uh, what youdo about, uh, his present demand. Now,what, what, uh, what [unintelligible] about that?DEAN:Well, apparently Mitchell and, and, uh, uh,-6-UNIDENTIFIED:LaRue.DEAN:LaRue are now aware of it, so they know whathe is feeling.PRESIDENT:True. [Unintelligible] do something. DEAN:I, I have, I have not talked with either. Ithink they are in a position to dosomething, though.PRESIDENT:It's a long road, isn't it? I mean, the wayyou look back on that, as John has pointedout here is that that's a, that's a, that's a long road.DEAN:It sure is.PRESIDENT:For all of us, for all of us. I mean, whatthe hell you going to do? That's why you're, that's why you, you&#8482;re sort of wrestlingwith the idea of moving in anotherdirection.DEAN:That's right. Uh, 'cause it's not only thatgroup, but within this circle of people whohave tidbits of knowledge, there are a lotof weak individuals and any one of those could cause it to blow: the secretary to Gordon Liddy, uh,PRESIDENT:Sloan.DEAN:the secretary to, uh, to Jeb Magruder.-7PRESIDENT:Sloan.DEAN:Chuck Colson's secretary, (unintelligible]before the Senate Committee. And it's not, it's not only one forum. There's the civil suit filed by O'Brien which, uh, for somereason we can't get settled. They areholding on to it. They are going to have rather intense civil discovery. They maywell work hand in glove with that SenateCommittee. They're going to go out and take depositions and start leaking things and there'll be inconsistencies. Leak what's inthe transcript of one and see who breaks outin the other. There are all kinds of things they've got going right now that, uh, wouldmean, uh, [unintelligible] hold this thingtogether. And the other thing I must say I've noticed is there is a, there's an attitude that has grown amongst all thepeople that have been involved in this thingto protect their own behinds. And they're going to start going and hiring counsel.HALDEMAN:Yeah. They've started to do that.DEAN:Oh yeah. Uh, Dwight, for example, now wantsa lawyer; uh, uh, Kalmbach has hired himself a lawyer; Colson has retained a lawyer; andnow that we've [unintelligible] enough toknow that self-protection is setting in.-8-PRESIDENT:Well, let's not trust them.DEAN:Surely.PRESIDENT:Maybe we face the situation, but we can't doa damned thing about the participants who are going to get it eventually,[unintelligible] why not now?DEAN:Well, that -- PRESIDENT:That's, that's what you're sort of resignedto do.DEAN:Well, my thought is that if it's going tocome it should come in a way that would not harm you and, uh, the individuals bear apart of it.PRESIDENT:Well, we don't want to harm the peopleeither. That's my concern. Well --survives them. Well, we can't, we can'tharm the, uh, these young people I mean I'm damned concerned about all these people that were all working inDEAN:For my part--PRESIDENT:whatever they considered to be the bestinterests of the country, and so forth. I've never, I haven't any question as toHALDEMAN:That's right, we don't have any questionhere of some guy-9stashing money is his pocket.[SeveralVoices.][Unintelligible] PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] it isn't something, itisn't it isn't something like Hiss, forexample, God damned treason. Something[unintelligible]HALDEMAN:Or like Sherman Adams, doing it for his owncomfort, or uh, Albert Fall, doing it forhis own enrichment.PRESIDENT:Yeah. That's right. That's the point.That's why I say I'm, I'm going to take alot of the heat. (Coughs] Well, we have torealize that, uh, the attrition is going to be rather considerable.That, that's yourpoint, isn't it?DEAN:I think it, it's hard to prevent. Now,that's why I raise the point of, of this immunity concept again. That would take alot of heat. Obviously, the immunity might-- But it also [unintelligible] you find cannot be structured, that you're con--, you're concerned about, there's somethinglurking here that has been brought to yourattention of recent. Uh, now is the time to get the facts. People have been protectingthemselves. Dean couldn't get all theinformation. People wouldn't give it to him. Uh, there are indications now that there are other things, and you'd like toget all this information and lay it beforethe-10public, but it's not going to come out ifpeople are going to go take the FifthAmendment before a grand jury. It'll never be proved. I--PRESIDENT:And it isn't going to come out of acommittee.DEAN:It's not going to come out of a committee,either. Uh, for those reasonsPRESIDENT:Not in a fair way, that's the point.DEAN:True. That's right. Now -- Or it may nevercome out. They may -- They will probably never get it out either, regardless of howclever they are. But now's the time to pullit up, all out [unintelligible]EHRLICHMAN:Plus, they're not going to have the keywitnesses.DEAN:That's right. UNIDENTIFIED:That's right. DEAN:So therefore, you select a panel of, say theDeputy Attorney General, the head of theCriminal Division, the head of the Civil Division, something like that. You call over everybody in the White House, and tellthem that we want, "I have been instructedby the President, we're to put together exactly what happened. You won't beprosecuted for it because, uh, that's notthe point now. The point is to get out all this information.&#64258; And then you will-11make a decision, based on what you learn,whether people can remain in the governmentor not. And if it's bad, uh, they'll be removed, they'll be forced to resign. If it's something that, uh, is palatable,they'll go on with their job.HALDEMAN:The hue and cry would be that "This is, thisis a super cover-up. Before they were justtrying to cover up the the information. Nowthey realize they've got guilty people, so they, they've immunized them so that they can't be prosecuted."DEAN:I'm not just sure how many people would comeout guilty.EHRLICHMAN:Yeah, well [unintelligible]. The perceptionis the important thing.PRESIDENT:Yeah, but the point is, were we talking-- DEAN:All right, is that, is that better? Or is itbetter to have, you know, just, just keepgoing and have the thing build up and all ofa sudden collapse? And, and people get indicted, and people, uh, get tarnished.PRESIDENT:After we've stonewalled it?DEAN:After we've stonewalled it, and after thePresident's been accused of covering up that way.-12-PRESIDENT:That's the point.EHRLICHMAN:Or is there another way?PRESIDENT:Yeah, like -- ? EHRLICHMAN:Like the, the Dean statements, where thePresident then makes a full disclosure ofeverything which he then has. And is in aposition if it does collapse at a later time to say, "Jesus, I had the FBI, and the GrandJury, and I had my own counsel. I turnedover every rock I could find. And I rested my confidence in these people in good faith and it's obvious now -- "PRESIDENT:The middle ground taken would be -- I mean,I've been around, we've been around on that one quite a bit, the middle ground would bethat, uh, I mean, uh, naturally you, youhaving to live through it, have to be a bit sensitive about the way we&#8482;re going to, we're -- but I -- That doesn't concern me.I mean it doesn't concern me, and I don't --I think as far as the public is concerned, it won't do much. Uh, if you as the White House Counsel, John, uh, on direction uh, Iask for a, a written report, which I think,uh, that--which is very general, understand. Understand, [laughs] I don't want to getall that God damned specific. I'm thinkingnow in far more general terms, having in mind the fact that the problem with a specific report is that,-13uh, this proves this one and that one thatone, and you just prove something that youdidn't do at all. But if you make it rather general in terms of my -- your investigation indicates that this man did not do it, thisman did not do it, this man did do that.You are going to have to say that, John, you know, like the, uh, Segretti-ChapinDEAN:Um huh.PRESIDENT:That has to be said. And, uh, and, soforth. And that under the circumstances, that, uh, grinds the man.EHRLICHMAN:Could he do this? To give some weight tothat, could you attach as an appendix a list of the FBI reports to which you had access:interview with Kalmbach, interview withSegretti, interview with Chapin, and Magruder, and whoever, Dean, the whole business. So that the President at somelater time is in a position to say, "Irelied."DEAN:Not on Dean alone but on corroboratedevidence [unintelligible]EHRLICHMAN:That's right. It also helps with the Graysituation because it shows the use made of the FBI reports by you. He's reporting tothe President. He can say in there, "I havenot disclosed the contents of these to anybody else."-14PRESIDENT:"Yes, I was, had access to reports for thepurpose of carrying out your instructions tofind out whether --" Because that is true. I've had -- You're the man I have asked "Well, now, who the hell has been involvedhere.&#64258; You reported it before, found thatthere was no reflection on anybody [unintelligible] at this point. Uh, but,uh--UNIDENTIFIED:[Unintelligible] EHRLICHMAN:I think that the President's in a strongerposition later, and the Presidency is in astronger position later if he can be shownto have justifiably relied on you at this point in time.DEAN:Well, there's the argument now that Dean'scredibility is in question, uh, as a result of the Gray hearings. Maybe I shouldn't do it. Maybe someone who has--EHRLICHMAN:This will rehabilitate you, though. Yourcredibility--PRESIDENT:No, as a matter of fact, John, I don't thinkyour credibility is in much jeopardy. Sure,you're under attack, but they want you upthere to testify. I don't think it's the credibility. They want you to testify. I,uh, I would not be too sensitive about that.I think that you would, you'd make a hell of a good impression, really.EHRLICHMAN:Beyond that, you can, you can help your,your participation-15-in the interviews by saying, uh, that, inaddition to having seen the, uh, FBIsynopses, you were present at the time of the interview of a numberDEAN:That's right.EHRLICHMAN:of these witnesses, andPRESIDENT:That's right. EHRLICHMAN:you yourself conducted interviews ofothers--PRESIDENT:"I conducted interviews of the followingpeople. -I didn't, didn't, didn't," Uh--I'm just trying to think about it. Huh?HALDEMAN:Turn all that into a puzzle.EHRLICHMAN:Absolutely. PRESIDENT:Yeah.EHRLICHMAN:You were doing this in furtherancePRESIDENT:Right. EHRLICHMAN:of your role-- PRESIDENT:That's right. And also, that you, thatthere's been such a, a lot of crap put outabout, uh, what you have done that,-16uh, without referring to the fact, withoutbeing a bit defensive about it, uh, that,you know, that you, you intended to do the letter. The letter -- which would not be a letter to Eastland. I think that at thispoint it would be a letter from Dean to me.And you'd say that, "Now that the," -- and you would base it on the fact, "Now that thehearings, now that the Watergate is, isdone, I can now give a report about any progress of --"EHRLICHMAN:Well, that's what you should say. In otherwords, he gives the report because you askedhim for it, regardless of the timeliness.DEAN:Yeah, the only problem with thatPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:is that if Hunt and -- not Hunt but, excuseme, Liddy and McCord are still out on appeal, they may not be sentenced onFriday--PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:-- they still haven't come out the way -- EHRLICHMAN:Yeah. Well, all right. Then I would notget into that. I think you could say that,you could say,PRESIDENT:Yeah.-17-EHRLICHMAN:uh, "I have a report. I don't mind showingit to Ervin. I wouldn't want it publishedbecause some fellow's trial The case is still around."PRESIDENT:Right. Well, let me say, the problem withthat is, uh, I don't believe that helps onour cause. In light of the fact that well, uh, let me just -- I am not sure,maybe I am wrong--the fact that thePresident says, "I've shown Ervin the report.&#64258; We've got to remember that we have, we have nobody there. I thinksomething has to [unintelligible] where,EHRLICHMAN:Fine. [Unintelligible] PRESIDENT:where we can put out something to thepublic.HALDEMAN:If you're worried about the timeliness, andtrying to hang it to the -- on the sentencing, we don't really have to do that.We're going to say we just ignore the trial,PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:and say you have been -- and we've been,the, this -- we want it established anywayDean has given you a report. We, webasically said it's an oral report. You can put the thing that Dean has kept you postedfrom time to time with periodic oral reportsas, uh, on this thing, as, as it, uh, uh, it becomes available-18DEAN:Right.HALDEMAN:and so forth. You have asked himPRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:now, uh, to summarize those, PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:uh, into, uh,PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:an overall summary.PRESIDENT:Overall summary, and I am making the reportavailable to the Ervin Committee. Very public.[SeveralVoices.][Unintelligible]PRESIDENT:And, and, and I again offer the ErvinCommittee, I offer the Ervin Committee, uh,I'd say, "Dear Senator Ervin," I'd say,"Here, here is the report, it is before your hearings. I want you to have it, complete access, and, as I have said previously, thatany, any questions that are not answeredhere, any member of the White House staff, they will be directed to answer any, uh,HALDEMAN:--informal---19PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:Good.PRESIDENT:on that basis.&#64258; Well, we've run that bybefore. John.EHRLICHMAN:Well, we've said it's formal and informalPRESIDENT:Yeah.EHRLICHMAN:in the statement and that's uh, PRESIDENT:Yeah.EHRLICHMAN:[unintelligible]PRESIDENT:Yeah. EHRLICHMAN:But let's suppose you did the damn -- Imean, you did it as to the burglary, and youdid it as to -PRESIDENT:Segretti. EHRLICHMAN:and you make some passing reference tomoney, correct? And then you send her upthere. Uh, then let's suppose Hunt blows at some time. Our position on that is that, uh, "Hunt was an investigator. He was sentout to do an investigation on Ellsberg. Uh,when we discovered what he was up to, we stopped him.&#64258; [Coughs] Now, I suppose that lets Ellsberg out, that's an illegal search-20and search and seizure that may besufficient at least for a mistrial, if notfor a --PRESIDENT:Isn't it damn near through yet? EHRLICHMAN:Pardon?PRESIDENT:Isn't that case about finished?EHRLICHMAN:Oh, it'll go on a while yet. Uh -- HALDEMAN:Can he get a mistrial after a conviction?EHRLICHMAN:Yeah, sure. Uh, well, let&#8482;s, let's supposethat occurred. Uh, that was a national security situation. Uh, Hunt exercised bad judgment, and I think it's arguable that heshould never have been permitted to go tothe Comnittee after that episode, having, having, uh, reflected on his judgment thatway. But, uh, beyond that, the question is,did we, did we authorize it, did we condone it,PRESIDENT:Yeah.EHRLICHMAN:did wePRESIDENT:Yeah.-21EHRLICHMAN:support it? And that kind of thing.PRESIDENT:And that's, that part of it. Getting backto the, uh, getting back to this, John, uh, you still sort of tilt to the panel idea yourself?DEAN:Well, I'm still, I see in, in thisconversation the things that we've, you know, thought of before, we've talkedabout-before. But they do not ultimatelysolve what I see as the grave problem of a cancer growing around the Presidency, and that the cancer is going to continue togrow. This is just another thing that givesa problem. It does not clean the problem out.EHRLICHMAN:Well, but doesn't it give, doesn't it permitthe President to clean it out at such time as it does come up? By saying, "Indeed, I relied on it. And now this, this laterthing turns up, and I don't condone that.And if I'd known about that before, obviously, I wouldn't have done it. And I'm going to move on it now."-22PRESIDENT:Your point, John, is the, the -- You reallythink you've got to clean the cancer outnow, right?DEAN:Yes sir. PRESIDENT:And, uh, how would you do that? You comeback again for another round. You see noother, you see no other way that, uh, you, you, you -- without the, without setting a,without breaking down on executiveprivilege, of course.DEAN:I see that, yeah, yeah, there are a coupleof ways to do it.PRESIDENT:You certainly don't want to do it at theSenate, though, do you?DEAN:No sir.PRESIDENT:All right.DEAN:I think that would be an added trap. PRESIDENT:That's the, that's the worst thing. Allright.-23DEAN:Uh--PRESIDENT:We've got to do it.DEAN:We've got to do it. You have to do it, toget the credit for it. Uh, that, that gets you above it. Uh, as I see it, that meanspeople getting hurt, and I hope we can findthe answer to that problem.EHRLICHMAN:All right, suppose we did this? Supposingyou rendered a report to the President oneverything you know about this. And the President then fires some people, Step one, Step two, sends the report over to theJustice Department, then says, &#64257;I've beendiligently at work on this. My counsel's been diligently at work. Here are hisfindings."PRESIDENT:Where would you stop it? With, uh, Magruderover in Commerce?EHRLICHMAN:Christ, I don't know where it stops, Youknow, uhUNIDENTIFIED:[Unintelligible] Ziegler? EHRLICHMAN:Christ, that's HALDEMAN:It's probably going to be with MagruderPRESIDENT:No.HALDEMAN:[unintelligible] send it over to Justice.-24EHRLICHMAN:Well, if you send the report over, it justsays Magruder did this and this.PRESIDENT:Well, yeah, but EHRLICHMAN:Well, that's what he's, that's what he istalking about.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:And then Magruder, though, is a, is a fellowthat's a --EHRLICHMAN:a free agent, at this point.PRESIDENT:is a free agent, according to John, who'dsay, uh -- he'd pull others down with him.EHRLICHMAN:Sure.DEAN:Well, now, what you, what you do --HALDEMAN:You don't know that he would, but you sureas hell have got to assume he would.EHRLICHMAN:Why, of course.DEAN:I think what you could do is you could dropnumbers, with names on them, in a hat, you can draw them out to see who gets hurt andwho doesn't. [Laughs] Well, that's about asfair as you could be.EHRLICHMAN:The minute you PRESIDENT:Strachan. Do the same to him with it.-25DEAN:Strachan?PRESIDENT:Maybe. Not so much.UNIDENTIFIED:Maybe Jeb. DEAN:[Unintelligible] I think he has a problem. PRESIDENT:Uh, the problem of knowledge of it.HALDEMAN:He has a problem of knowledge. Magruder hasa problem of action.PRESIDENT:Action and perjury.EHRLICHMAN:Well, Strachan found the money. That's theproblem.DEAN:No. HALDEMAN:Not really.DEAN:The thing that we'd like, you know, tohappen, if possible, to do this, is --Hunt has now sent a blackmail request directly tothe White 11ouse.PRESIDENT:Who did he send it to? You? DEAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Or to me?DEAN:To your counsel.-26PRESIDENT:Uh huh.HALDEMAN:That's the interesting kind of thing,there's something there that maybe we blow it all up that way, and there go all the -- and everything starts going in a whole newdirection.DEAN:That would hurt but he's, he's committing anoffense, Right there. That is blackmail.HALDEMAN:Yeah, John, but where does that take you?That takes you to your support of other people who are not fully aware of the [unintelligible] anyway.DEAN:That's right.HALDEMAN:But we didn't know about that. UNINDENTIFIED:That's a fact. We're above that.DEAN:But, then, again, you have to get theproblem of people, what they're going to say -- [whistles].EHRLICHMAN:Well, if you go your route, you can't drawthe line someplaceDEAN:No, no. EHRLICHMAN:You can't then say, you know, we're goingto, we're going-27to reserve that, we've got to let it all --PRESIDENT:You see, if you go your route of the ca--,ofgetting, cutting, cutting the cancer out, the question is would you cut it out now is, uh, is, is, is, uh -- Take a Hunt.DEAN:Well --PRESIDENT:You [unintelligible] -- knock the hell outof him, don't you?DEAN:That's right.HALDEMAN:Well, if you take your route and it goesslightly [unintelligible] you have a certaincy, almost, of Magruder going tojail, Chapin going to jail, you going tojail,PRESIDENT:No.HALDEMAN:probably me going to jail.PRESIDENT:Uh, again, I question the last two. HALDEMAN:Certainly Chapin. Certainly Straclian. No,not really.DEAN:Not necessarily, uhUNIDENTIFIED:Not Chapin. HALDEMAN:Chapin and Strachan are clean. Well, so isStrachan.-28EHRLICHMAN:I think Strachan is hooked on, on thismoney.PRESIDENT:What money was that? EHRLICHMAN:He is an accessory in a, in a undeclaredcampaign fund.HALDEMAN:That's no -- That, that's -- The only guyresponsible for that is the treasurer.EHRLICHMAN:I know.HALDEMAN:Sure.EHRLICHMAN:But not under the law. PRESIDENT:Well that was un---, undeclared for awhile,I think it was,'70, '68.EHRLICHMAN:Yeah. But then it got back into the coffersand, uh, was used in this campaign.DEAN:Let's say, let's say the President sent meto the Grand Jury to make a report. Whowould be, who would, who could I actually do anything to, pr cause any problems for? As a practical matter, first-hand knowledge; uh,almost no one. All I could do is to givethem a focus plus leads.-29PRESIDENT:Right. Right.HALDEMAN:Then they start following the leads.DEAN:That's right, and where they ultimately comedown or -- Well, there, there again, is, is, is the -- We don't have anybody to talk tosomebody who understands the process[unintelligible]. I was talking outside with Bob about Henry Petersen. Uh, we justhave to have somebody talk to somebody that,that, can really break in and can say, "Henry, what does this mean in the criminal justice system? What kind of a case could bemade on this? Uh, what kind of offenseswould evolve out of that?&#64258; [Unintelligible] got a pretty good idea of most of thestatutes that are involved, but there, uh,there is so much behind the statutes.PRESIDENT:Do you want to bring him in? Talk to him?Well, if you do that, you will suit theAttorney General.DEAN:Well, you're putting in, you7re putting inhis knowledge --PRESIDENT:I see.DEAN:Uh, we'll have to play with that.-30HALDEMAN:If you do it hypothetically--DEAN:Right.HALDEMAN:You've got, you've got this brother-in-lawwho has this problem in school. [Laughs]PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:He told this wild scenario that I'd like you--PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:[Unintelligible].My friend is writing aplay, and unless he, uh --DEAN:Uh, but, it bothers me to do anythingfurther now, in the situation, when Hunt'sour real hang-up.PRESIDENT:Well, now, do you think a statement promptshim?DEAN:Yes, sir, I do. It doesn't solve it. It'sjust one more step.HALDEMAN:The payment to Hunt does too. PRESIDENT:The payment to Hunt does, yeah.DEAN:Maybe that's what -- That's why I say, youknow, somebody to assess the criminal liability. Maybe we are mis-assessing it.-31EHRLICHMAN:Well, I really don't know, will PetersenWould you confide in him?HALDEMAN:I think I would. EHRLICHMAN:How else? You could start down that road.You could say,"Henry, I want to, I want totalk to you about, uh, questions that arisein the course of my investigation, but I have to swear you to secrecy." If he'lltake it on that basis.DEAN:There's the answer, of course, "ThePresident has told me neverto say -- I, uh, I want to know if you can talk to me offthe record.&#64258; [Unintelligible]EHRLICHMAN:You immediately eliminate one of youroptions. You can, well, you can eliminatethe option of the President being able totake the position he knew nothing about it.PRESIDENT:Uh, so you, uh, you see then that, uh, youdon't see the, uh, you don't see thestatement thing, uh, uh, helping insofar asthe, the -- be of any way -- the, uh helping insofar as -- 'cause if you, you must--you think that over some more.DEAN:Yes, sir. The idea is the temporary answer.-32PRESIDENT:I agree with that. But the point is to, uh,but you see, here's the, the way I would seethe statement that we could say we get out: Our -- Everything we would intend to say or, or we could get out a general statement as Ihave already indicated, would get out a,with regard to the fact that we spent looking into the God damn thing, it's really-- I mean, I've said it, we, we just can't,you, you know, withdraw, so let's forget a withdrawal at this point. Well, and secondly, again, the offer for White Housepeople to cooperate so that we're notcovering up, okay. And that still leaves it, however, in the hands of the Committee.I agree. A statement, at least, would, it'strue, temporary, but it, uh, would indicate the President has looked into the matter, has had his counsel report to him and thisis the result of that, uh, now let theCommittee do their damnedest. We will cooperate. And the Committee will say, "No." And so we'll just stand right there.DEAN:Well, what will really [sighs],I think whatwill, will prompt a new problem will be Sirica giving a speech from the bench onFriday when he sentences.PRESIDENT:Yeah.-33DEAN:I think he will charge that he cannotbelieve the trial was conducted by thegovernment presenting a limited case. That he is not convinced the case represents the full situation.HALDEMAN:In other words, uh --DEAN:I know if that's the case it'll have adramatic impact on the day ofPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:sentencing with Sirica from the bench, PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:because he'll charge that there arehigher-ups involved in this. He may takesome dramatic action like, uh, you know, appoint a special prosecutor. Who knows?PRESIDENT:Can he do that?DEAN:Sure. I think he could. PRESIDENT:He could appoint a special prosecutor, forwhat? For--DEAN:To reopen the investigation. He is thepresiding judge.-34HALDEMAN:He could go, he could convene a grand jury.Or he said he could.DEAN:Well, the government is going to do that.Uh --PRESIDENT:Thegovernment's going to do that for what?DEAN:Right after sentencing, the week aftersentencing they're goingto take all the people who've been sentenced back before theGrand Jury--PRESIDENT:These same ones? DEAN:These same ones.And see if they want,now want to talk. Sirica may --put, youknow, give them provisional sentences. Andsay if they are helpful to the government, back before the Grand Jury, he'll reconsiderthe sentences,[unintelligible] peoplehorrendous sentences.PRESIDENT:Suppose -- Horrendous sentences I think wecan anticipate. But, but, suppose he doesthat? Then where, where does thatleave usthen, John? Where does that leave us? You just say --EHRLICHMAN:Well,I don't think that's a surprise tothe defendants. Ithink their counsel musthave prepared them for that.-35PRESIDENT:I'm -- right. I wonder, however, however,in terms of what about our, what about ourposition? In other words, we're damned by the courts before-Ervin ever could get there.EHRLICHMAN:The, the only thing that we can say is forZiegler to say, "Look, we've investigated backwards and forwards in the White House,and we're satisfied on the basis of thereport we have that nobody in the White House has been involved in a burglary, nobody had notice of it, knowledge of it,participated in the planning, or aided orabetted it in any way."PRESIDENT:Well, that's what you could say.EHRLICHMANAnd it happens to be true,PRESIDENT:Yeah. EHRLICHMAN:as for that transaction. PRESIDENT:[Laughs]Sure. As for that transaction.EHRLICHMAN:Right.PRESIDENT:Well, John, you, uh, you, uh, you must feelthat's, uh, is enough.DEAN:No [unintelligible]-36EHRLICHMAN:Now, let's, let's try another, let's tryanother concommitant to that. SupposingMitchell were to step out on that same day and were to say, &#64257;I&#8482;ve been doing some investigation at 1701 and I find so and so,and so and so."PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] UNIDENTIFIED:Yes, sir.EHRLICHMAN:And I don't know what he would say, butmaybe he'd want to make some kind of a disclosure. And then what?PRESIDENT:What the hell is he going to disclose thatisn't going to blow something? Yeah. Well[unintelligible]EHRLICHMAN:Well, I'm going to have to -- I[unintelligible] have to resolve it.PRESIDENT:I don't have any time. I'm sorry. I'mgoing to have to leave. What is there -- What have you got here [unintelligible].Well, uh, you meet what time tomorrow?HALDEMAN:I am not sure. In the morning. DEAN:Morning. HALDEMAN:[Unintelligible] we will brood this out.-37PRESIDENT:Fine. Well, sure. You come here(unintelligible]. We're going around.That's the way you have to do. Right.-38