TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A PORTION OF AMEETING BETWEEN PRESIDENT NIXON, HALDEMAN, AND EHRLICHMAN ON JULY 6, 1971NIXON, MITCHELL, HALDEMAN AND EHRLICHMAN JULY 6, 1971NIXON:Uh, I wanted to, uh, check with you beforeyou had left. Because you won't be back fora week. And --MITCHELL:It'll, it'll be, be, well, its not quite twoweeks. But its close to it. The 24th, I'llbe back.NIXON:But with regard to, uh, where we stand.I'll be in California through the 19th, or the 20th, I guess is that it? -Are we stilldoing that thingHALDEMAN:It says here... NIXON:...Senator?HALDEMAN:The 20th.NIXON:Well, we'll come right back from there, Iguess, right, then we'd come back and uh, uh, the uh, uh, have you talked to Johnabout this Ells --- this, uh -not Ellsbergthing.MITCHELL:Cook. NIXON:The, the Mathias thing. The rest of thepapers.SEVERAL UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKERS:No, I have not, I don't know I haven&#8482;t. Iknow--uh, Mardian -Mardian (unintelligible)MITCHELL:And there's to be a meeting with Mathias the8th -I don't know why he postponed it so long -with Mardian and people from DOD, Iguess that's it, State's not involved -toget into this. Mathias is playing a little cat and mouse game -wouldn't see them beforethe 8th to get into the background of howthey got them from Ellsberg, what they are and get them returned.2NIXON:Well, the problem that we have on those isnot that, these, these are papers from the NSC, is that correct? Y'see -that's what I'mconcerned about. These are papers -that'swhy State should be in on it. These are papers that involves memorandas apparentlythat Rogers is supposed to have written tothe NSC, or to me or to somebody.MITCHELL:They are they are the Nixon papers. As faras I know he has not described them.HALDEMAN:How did they getNIXON:How did they get out of the NSC file, that'smy point. And, and, and then, are we-that's the, that's the investigation that'sgot to be given the highest priority immediately now.HALDEMAN:...they don't necessarily.NIXON:Now here's --HALDEMAN:...could have come out of an NSC file, theNSC could have got you've gotta, got a Defense file, out of a State file --or outof an NSC file --MITCHELL:Aw come on, bullshit NIXON:Sure. Rogers sent papers to me. I'm notsure that Defense would have them.HALDEMAN:No, but then State would. NIXON:Fine, fine, all right. States,that's mypoint. State's got to get in on it.Henry's you gotta check Lynn and, uh, thisfellow Cwok what's his name? Is that his name?MITCHELL:Cook.NIXON:Cook. He was there right? Is he, one thathad access to this stuff?HALDEMAN:He had access to the Vietnam studies in the-uh,3NIXON:Yeah.MITCHELL:(unintelligible) HALDEMAN:...since &#8218;69 when at State. Yeah.EHRLICHMAN:I don't think we really know what -we don&#8482;tknow what they are.(Unintelligible)MITCHELL:No. The only information I have and it'swhat, apparently, he told Mel Laird and it was the fact that they were Nixon papers.EHRLICHMAN:And that they came from Ellsberg?MITCHELL:Yes. Ells -Ellsberg.NIXON:Ellsberg. MITCHELL:Ellsberg. That's correct.EHRLICHMAN:But that's all you can tell me.MITCHELL:Well, as I say, he -- NIXON:Well, in any event, when you say Nixonpapers -Are these papers -not apparentlyfrom me, if, uh, or, or are they?MITCHELL:No. I understood &#338; NIXON:I don't see how they could be &#338; MITCHELL:--that they were&#352;NIXON:...because I, I've scared Henry within aninch ofhis life from the time he's been here. He's never going to get anything fromme out on anything.EHRLICHMAN:Well, I gather these are to or from you -oneor the other. And -NIXON:It wouldn't be from me. They're not fromme, John, because they're written fromHenry. You know what I mean. The NSC --that's the way it's done.4MITCHELL:I, I understood it as being during the NixonAdministration.NIXON:Correct.MITCHELL:That&#8482;s as much information as I have on it.NIXON:We&#8482;ll know in a couple of days.MITCHELL:The 8th&#8482;s&#352;NIXON:If he makes good on it. But in any case, ifEllsberg&#8482;s sources are contemporary.MITCHELL:I, I believe that.NIXON:And if they&#8482;re&#352;and the main point I would toget at when I&#8482;ve got&#352;I think we&#8482;ve got to getthe conspiracy angle here. Uh, Ellsberg isnot a lone operator. Ellsberg is a, he&#8482;s a,--I don&#8482;t know who&#8482;s in it. Maybe Lynn is in it. Maybe Cook is in it. Uh. I&#8482;m notspeaking just to the New York Times&#352;- Iunderstand they&#8482;re going to do something aboutSheehan&#352;whatever his name is. That&#8482;s uh, but,but he&#8482;s uh, he&#8482;s a party once removed. Butwe have got to get at the people...MITCHELL:(unintelligible)NIXON:...who are conspirators in it&#352;because that&#8482;sone thing we find the public supports&#352;-the public want, the people want Ells, Ellsbergprosecuted probably because of his, becausethey, they understand, that threat. They manynot want a newspaper to publish it, but theydon&#8482;t want, they don&#8482;t want a guy to steal it.That&#8482;s the, that&#8482;s the general thing that Isee from everything that I&#8482;ve been able to pick up here&#352;MITCHELL:We&#8482;ve had a crew&#352;NIXON:I think if we could get a, the conspiracything &#352;- Now, the other thing, John. I thinkit&#8482;s, I think we need cooperation from Hoover,uh, in terms of, uh &#352;- This has to be tried inthe, in the papers, in the newspapers, youunderstand what I mean? Let me say that thereis, uh, the, uh, maybe, I don&#8482;t mean Ellsberg, Ellsberg now has already been indicted, or hashe? -- No.5MITCHELL:Yes. He's under indictment.NIXON:--been charged--MITCHELL:No, he's indicted. He's -been indicted by agrand jury.NIXON:Yeah, yeah. I see. Indicted. Well, thepoint is that, that, uh, as far as the othersare concerned, the way really, to get the conspiracy out is to get it out throughpapers, through Congressional sources,through, uh, newspapers and so forth and soon, and smoke them out that way. Uh, it's theonly we were, we were able to crack the Hisscase and the Bentley case. In other words, wecould, and then, we didn't have the cooperation of the government. They werefighting us, but we God damn well(unintelligible) got it out. And in thisinstance, these fellows have all putthemselves above the law and, uh, includingapparently, including two or three of Henry'sstaff and by God we're going to go after &#8218;embecause there's just too much stuff in therenow that I don't want another one of his boys to leak it out. That's why, -I, John, youcannot assume that Henry's staff didn't dothis. Now, I've had Haig in here right nowand Haig says he couldn't believe Lynn didanything. Lynn has left. Now he's overworking for Richardson. I'd get him in andI'd question him. Did you do this? And I'd polygraph him. I think we've got to do thatfor Lynn. I think you've got to do it to -forCook. Because we&#8482;ve got to find out whetherpeople currently in, who, who, Jesus he'sstill in the government. Now, Richardson isn'tgoing to like it, but I, I don't know how,what else we can, we can do to, to get at thisthing. Uh, the uh, think, the Ellsbergprosecution -it's a -you've got a pretty good man on it, have you? Who's that?MITCHELL:Well, it's under Mardian's department and &#338;we&#8482;ve got...NIXON:Is that Mardian?6MITCHELL:...and we've got some of the betterpeople...NIXON:Good, wellMITCHELL:...working on it. A fell by the name ofVincent. They've, We've been -we've had a crew working over the weekend with DOD onthis conspiracy concept...NIXON:Have you? MITCHELL:...that we put together. NIXON:How, what kind of cooperation are yougetting from them, John? Is it--MITCHELL:DOD? NIXON:Yeah.MITCHELL:Good...NIXON:Now, Laird... MITCHELL:...as, as, far as, as far as we can tell. NIXON:is Laird?HALDEMAN:It's BuzhardtNIXON:y&#8482;see, ya see, ya see, Laird's gone, butLaird sat in here as you recall and said he had all this thing -that he thought it was aconspiracy and so forth but they've got amuch bigger outfit working on this than Edgar Hoover has.MITCHELL:I know they have. But I want to tell you,Mr. President -after Mel Laird said that that day, I asked Buzhardt over the next day and they weren't even close to it. They hadCook and Ellsberg -those are the only two...NIXON:Is that right? MITCHELL:...two they had.NIXON:they are? Just bulling?7MITCHELL:But, uh, they are, of course, these obviousleaks that go back into the Halperins, or the or Larry Lynn or the rest of them andthat's what they've been working on over theweekend and I'll have a briefing on that today.NIXON:John, would you like -do you think it wouldbe well to put, uh, to put uh, for you to put some -oh, maybe that isn't the place for it. Maybe the place for it's up in acommittee of Congress. Let Ichord and hisbear cats go after it. Uh, what I'm getting at is, that, uh, you've got the Ellsbergcase. I, I'm not so interested in gettingout and indicting peopld and then having our mouths shut. I'm more interested in frankly, getting the story out, see thepoint? That's even on the Ellsberg thing.I'm not so sure that I'd would. that I'd want him tried, convicted -we had to do that because he's admitted -but as long as wecan, uh --MITCHELL:Well, uh, we have Ellsberg back into some ofour domestic Communists.NIXON:Have you?MITCHELL:Yes. NIXON:You really have? MITCHELL:Yup.NIXON:Domestic Communists -now, that&#8482;s that'sgreat. That's the kind of thing we need.MITCHELL:That's right. And we're putting the storytogether. He's been, attended meetings outin Minnesota and, uh, for this Communist lawyer in a trial out there and we're putting all that together. We're gettin'NIXON:Is that, is that the result of Hoover or theDefense Department, do you think?MITCHELL:You mean the information?8NIXON:Yeah.MITCHELL:It, it came out of a U.S. Marshal out inMinnesota who, uh...NIXON:Oh?MITCHELL:...recognized the guy and recognized hisbackground...NIXON:GreatMITCHELL:...and had, had him under surveillance atone of those meetings.NIXON:Mm Hmm.HALDEMAN:Shouldn't somebody get at -I assume theykeep the files on all those taps when we were running all those people through.NIXON:You know that&#8482;s--MITCHELL:Halperin -- HALDEMAN:This -In light of this, some of that stuffmay be a hell of a lot more meaningfulnow...MITCHELL:I HALDEMAN:...than it was then. MITCHELL:I, I, I've had them reviewed in the Bureau.HALDEMAN:There were a lot of conversations withSheehan in them, to my recollection.NIXON:Were there?HALDEMAN:I think there were. I may be wrong but Isure think there was. And nobody would agree -(several talking at once)NIXON:In light of current history who's got thetime to read it. I haven't, I naturally never saw any of that stuff.9HALDEMAN:Well some of it may have been gobbledy gookat the time but it may -MITCHELL:Well, a, Bob is right. You never know whatthose taps mean...NIXON:No. MITCHELL:...until it relates to...NIXON:No.MITCHELL:...something. And they're being reviewed. EHRLICHMAN:John, don't you think that, uh, we could getourselves into a, into a dilemma if Mardianbegins to develop evidence on thisconspiracy and we want to go on a non-legal approach -either leaks or through the Ichordcommittee. If it, if it gets too -if, if,if, the Justice...NIXON:too far down the track EHRLICHMAN:...(Unintelligible)...too much in thepredominance so to speak in the developmentof this -MITCHELL:Well, it's my idea that we should only pickout the hard cases to try where we know wecan convictions.NIXON:John what is your feeling on -speaking ofhard cases, now -uh. Or, are you, do yousay that you're gonna, they're having a grand jury do you, did somebody told me that Cheean or Sheehan -EHRLICHMAN:Yeah, Mardian told me that.MITCHELL:Well, we're running a grand jury in, inBoston which doesn't necessarily relate toanybody.NIXON:I see. MITCHELL:It relates to the overall case.10NIXON:Now, on Sheehan. Let's talk about that. Isthat smart? Just, just being quite candid. Is it smart to go after Sheehan? My feeling,off the top of my head, is to convict thatson of a bitch before a committee.MITCHELL:Shehan?NIXON:Make him the (unintelligible) Here's thepoint. Uh. Let me say that, uh let me, let me recap in my own mind the whole attitude on the whole thing on this. First, anddespite all the beating and so forth you'vetaken, you did the right, we've done exactly the right thing up this point. You had toget that case to court. It had to go to theSupreme Court and when you read those, when you read the, the the opinions -as even Scotty Reston agreed -it, it gave themgoddam little comfort.MITCHELL:This is the general census in the newspapersnow which I think is right...NIXON:Right, that's right.MITCHELL:...which I think is right and great.NIXON:But my point is that it had to be done. Onthe, on the other, on the next point,however, I think that having done that andnow, now, we've got to continue to protect the security of these, these things -having in mind our own security -but, notrecognizing that there is, in my view, Ithink there is -I, I won't say there, but there's very, it seems to me, pretty goodevidence of a conspiracy. Do you feelthere's a conspiracy?MITCHELL:Well, yes. NIXON:I don't just don't know.11MITCHELL:Well, I know there's a conspiracy, uh,because of the fact that, uh, our East Coast conspiracy people in Massachusetts are theones that are, have been distributing thedocuments...NIXON:Uh, huh.MITCHELL:...which we will be able to develop. Uh.With respect to, uh Ellsberg and the papers that Mathias has, obviously, there's somebody else other than Ellsberg is takingthem out of the government and uh, we mayhave some problems finding that guy, but hopefully we will be able to. That guy orguys. Let me put out one other factor inhere. I don't know whether you noticed it, but uh, this statement that I put out with respect to the court decision, that thecourt decision spoke for itself...NIXON:Yes, yes (noise) but you were goinq to -- MITCHELL:...but that it reserved all of our criminalapproaches and...NIXON:That's exact, that's exactly right.MITCHELL:No, what we have got going there is the Posthas fallen over and laying dead. They,y&#8482;know, they're talking to McComber. Theywant to give him back those sensitive documents and everything else.NIXON:You've gotta watch (unintelligible)MITCHELL:And they want to give McComber back all thesensitive documents.NIXON:(Unintelligible)MITCHELL:Now, the reason for this is, and I've justlet it sit there, is that if we ever convicted the, the Post or Katie Graham she'd lose all of her television and radiolicenses.12NIXON:(Unintelligible)MITCHELL:...and radio licenses so I've just let thing sitthere and let&#8482;em sweat...NIXON: Great. MITCHELL:...and, let 'em sweat. But uh, I thinkpersonally feel at this time that it would be a mistake if we start indicting newspapers Now,what, what I haveNIXON:...You're right about that. MITCHELL:...what I have structured... NIXON:Try em in the papers MITCHELL:...oh yes (unintelligible) now what I have done,is, is get these grand juries going so we canget all of this information and hold it. Keepthe investigation going and then make our determinatiors as to who we want to indict and who we don't want to indict. We don't have to bring down an indictment out of the grand jury if we, if we don't want to. Uh, so that we can put the mosaic together and then have anotherlook at it and see where we're gonna go. And Ihave of course a hold on everything -not to put out anything which won't -out of the grand jury. There'll be no indictments, no bringing Sheehan before the grand jury or anything like that until we put the pieces together and see whatwe've got.NIXON:What we would like, what I would like, John, isthis I would like to have a, see, I'm keeping up, get a, and I've gotta see somebody in Rose on something, just a little peek, and I want to see Flanigan very briefly before I leave, we canwalk out to the airfield, well, it's notimportant, and I'll let you know when it's ready.UNIDENTIFIED:Right, right NIXON:And the other thing is, I think right now I havea feeling you're in an excellent position to goforward letting the leaks and everything elseout which would indicate that these bastards are guilty as hell and uh, I, uh, can, cannot wait for, th, the conviction of Ellsberg and so forth (unintell).13MITCHELL:No, I, I quite agree.NIXON:I think, we've got, I think the conspiracyside of that's why I hope, I think, I think we&#8482;ve got to go out. If you would tellHoover to work people (unintelligible)Defense outfit and push Laird, is it, or or whoever it is -Buzhardt.MITCHELL:I believe Buzhardt (unintelligible)NIXON:Make that son of a bitch get it done. Tellhim we want it done. I'm cutting off. I've I find shocked amazement to find that thisstupid Administration sold this classified(unintelligible) and everything else. Now, we&#8482;re gonna start getting tough. Where arethose names? Now I asked for those namesthis morning.UNIDENTIFIED:(unintelligible) NIXON:None of you asked what I want. I want themon my desk. Every former ten JohnsonAdministrator who's not in the government I want his God damned name (unintelligible) so we can removed. I was out for eight years.I've never, they refused me CIA briefings.What the hell, it would have beautiful opportunity to have offered --MITCHELL:(Unintelligible)NIXON:That's right. But does this sound like agood game plan? We're going to keep this one step away from me. (unintelligible)relation. I'll, I'll know what's going onand (unintelligible) Buchanan knows how to tellMITCHELL:NIXON:MITCHELL:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;HALDEMAN:14EHRLICHMAN:Who will uh, who will manage this grand jurywhile you're gone?NIXON:Mardian.EHRLICHMAN:Mardian?MITCHELL:Mardian and Kleindienst. But, thank God,as, as I say, this is a fact findingexpedition to put together the mosaic andnot to take any action at all without my approval.EHRLICHMAN:Good.NIXON:Y'know--(30 second deletion)NIXON:It shows you the pay-off, though, uh theWashington Post and the Times both haveswamped slop over, uh, beautiful stories ion Gurfien and that, I mean son of a bitch of a Republican. There were others. There'll beno more.HALDEMAN:Of course, I realize that undoing there'llbe no (unintelligible)MITCHELL:Probably would have, Gurfein probably wouldhave consulted you.NIXON:That's right. Well, enjoy your trip.You'll follow up then with Laird, and you,and you press hard Buzhardt. In otherwords; play the game in a public vein. Take off Sheehan, you figure that if we knock too hard it's gonna -What do you think? What'sit (unintelligible)MITCHELL:I think we ought to see what the wholepicture is. We know what Sheehan has done,but we don't know how deeply he was involvedwith Ellsberg. Uh. He is -EHRLICHMAN:Will he -do you have any reason to thinkhe'd testify?MITCHELL:Sheehan?15EHRLICHMAN:Yeah.MITCHELL:No. I wouldn't want him to testify becauseif he did, he'd ask for immunity and thatwould be the end of it.EHRLICHMAN:That's right. MITCHELL:And we can get the testimony out, we knowEHRLICHMAN:You can never, you can never get Sheehanexcept on the testimony of uh witnesses on the, uh well, uh, on the committee or on testimony of others, others, limited, and sofort and so on.MITCHELL:Well -- HALDEMAN:All we'd have to do get maybe somebody whoreceived the stuff.EHRLICHMAN:Plenty of people, people have been convictedwithout (unintelligible) it's a terrible lesson.MITCHELL:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;UNIDENTIFIED:Well, I suppose, '(unintelligible)HALDEMAN:She has no expectation.MITCHELL:No, no, of them have any immunity explicitor (unintelligible)NIXON:We're we're...EHRLICHMAN:We're going to have to gather thisinformation in that's available to the President.MITCHELL:All right. Dick Moore has been working onsome of this. He's got a lot of the background memoranda.EHRLICHMAN:He'll be (unintelligible/REMOVED)MITCHELL:(unintelligible/REMOVED)EHRLICHMAN:He can't (unintelligible/REMOVED)MITCHELL:Yeah.