TRANSCRIPT PREPARED BY THE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY STAFFFOR THEHOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEEOF A RECORDING OF A MEETING AMONGTHE PRESIDENT, H.R. HALDEMAN AND JOHN DEANONSeptember 15, 1972, From 5:24 to 6:17 P.M.August 6, 1974TRANSCRIPT PREPARED BY THE IMPEACHMENTINQUIRY STAFF FOR THE HOUSE JUDICIARYCOMMITTEE OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING AMONG THE PRESIDENT, H.R. HALDEMAN AND JOHN DEANON SEPTEMBER 15, 1972PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]HALDEMAN:John, he is one of the quiet guys that getsa lot done. That was a good move, too,bringing Dean in. But it's--PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:It -He'll never, he'll never gain any groundfor us. He's just not that kind of guy.But, he's the kind that enables other people to gain ground while he's making sure thatyou don't fall through the holes.PRESIDENT:Oh. You mean HALDEMAN:Between times, he's doing, he's movingruthlessly on the investigation of McGovernpeople, Kennedy stuff, and all that too. Ijust don't know how much progress he's making, 'cause I --PRESIDENT:The problem is that's kind of hard to find._______________*The quotation marks used in this transcriptare for convenience and do not indicateverbatim quotation by the speaker.HALDEMAN:Chuck, Chuck has gone through, you know, hasworked on the list, and Dean's working the, the thing through IRS and, uh, in some cases, I think, some other [unintelligible]things. He's -He turned out to be tougherthan I thought he would, which is whatPRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:is --PRESIDENT:You put anybody else that you want to run inin the morning, you can. [Unintelligible] I'm going to stick around here for awhile. I don't think I can do this finance group inthe morning. I think it's too quick after the Watergate. Let's do it next Mondayor Tuesday. That ought to be about it.HALDEMAN:Let me check and see. PRESIDENT:You know who he's, uh [unintelligible] HALDEMAN:There isn't, I don't think, anythingpending, but I'll check.PRESIDENT:You know, we ought to get somethingtogether. Shriver's put out his financial statement now, too. While you're at it, I'ddeliberately raise mine other than in[unintelligible]-2-HALDEMAN:Oh yeah, we're pushing that hard. The VicePresident was delighted with that.PRESIDENT:Did he get the point? HALDEMAN:Yeah.Absolutely.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]. Now we want -- in thatregard, I don't think he [unintelligible] wife, did she?HALDEMAN:I don't know, but I would guess his wifeprobably doesn't have any and so it won't make any difference.PRESIDENT:Make any dif-- she might.HALDEMAN:She must.PRESIDENT:Make him report it. HALDEMAN:But this Shriver one, we --PRESIDENT:The Shriver one, the -- Yeah. She'll haveto report [unintelligible] to the organization [unintelligible] trust.HALDEMAN:Yeah, it's all in trust. She only has abouttwenty thousand dollars. Kennedy put hisstocks up, tried for the trust to put, you know, what it was worth. [Dean enters room)&#338;3-PRESIDENT:Hi, how are you?DEAN:Yes sir. PRESIDENT:Well, you had quite a day today, didn't you?You got, uh, Watergate, uh, on the way, huh?DEAN:Quite a three months.HALDEMAN:How did it all end up? DEAN:Uh, I think we can say "Well" at this point.The, uh, the press is playing it just as weexpect.HALDEMAN:Whitewash? DEAN:No, not yet; the, the story right now --PRESIDENT:It`s a big story.DEAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]HALDEMAN:Five indicted --DEAN:Plus, HALDEMAN:They're building up the fact that one of -- DEAN:plus two White House aides.HALDEMAN:Plus, plus the White House former guy andall that. That's good. That, that takes the edge off whitewash-4-really -- which -- that was the thingMitchell kept saying that,PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:that to those in the country, Liddy and,and, uh, Hunt are big men.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Yeah. They're White House aides.DEAN:That's right.HALDEMAN:And maybe that -- Yeah, maybe that's good. PRESIDENT:How did MacGregor handle himself? DEAN:I think very well. He had a good statement.Uh, he said that the, uh, the Grand Juryindictment speaks for itself and that, uh, it's now time to realize that some apologiesmay be due.HALDEMAN:Fat chance. [Laughs] DEAN:Yeah. [Unintelligible]. PRESIDENT:We couldn't do that [unintelligible] justremember all the trouble they gave us onthis. We'll have a chance to get back at them one day. How are you doing on your other investigations? Your -How does this[unintelligible]-5-How does this [unintelligible]DEAN:[Unintelligible] end of the, uh -- HALDEMAN:What's happened on the bug? PRESIDENT:Hard, hard to find -- on the what?HALDEMAN:The bug.DEAN:The second bug. There was another bug foundin the phone of, uh, the first --PRESIDENT:You don't think it was one left over fromthe previous job?DEAN:We're -- Absolutely not. The, the Bureauhas, uh, checked and re-checked. The manwho checked the phone first said that hisfirst check was thorough and it was not there in the instrument [clears throat] andthat indeed it had to be planted after --PRESIDENT:What the hell do you think is involved?What's your guess?DEAN:I think the DNC planted it, quite clearly.PRESIDENT:You think they did it?-6-DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:Deliberately? DEAN:[Unintelligible] PRESIDENT:Well, what in the name of Christ -- who dothey think -- that anybody was -- Theyreally [unintelligible] want to believe that we planted that?HALDEMAN:Did they get anything on the fingerprints?DEAN:No they [unintelligible] HALDEMAN:There weren't any? DEAN:neither on the telephone or on the, uh, onthe bug. The, uh, well, the FBI hasunleashed a full blast investigation over at the DNC starting with O'Brien right now.HALDEMAN:[Laughs] Using the same crews now that theyhave nothing to do in Washington.DEAN:[Unintelligible] the same Washington FieldOffice.PRESIDENT:What are they doing? Asking them what kindof questions?DEAN:Anything that they can think of because whathappened, O'Brien has charged the Bureauwith failing to, uh, find all the, all thebugs, whenever [unintelligible]-7-HALDEMAN:Good, that'll make them mad.DEAN:So, so, Gray is pissed now and his peopleare kind of pissed off. So they're moving in because their reputation's on the line.That's, uh, do you think that's a gooddevelopment?PRESIDENT:I think that's a good development because itmakes it look so God damned phony, doesn'tit? The whole --DEAN:Absolutely. PRESIDENT:Or am I wrong?DEAN:No, no sir. It, it --PRESIDENT:--looks silly. DEAN:If we can, if we can find that the DNCplanted that, the whole story is going to--the whole -- just will reverse.PRESIDENT:But how could they, how could you possiblyfind it, though?DEAN:Well, there's a way. They're, they'retrying to ascertain who made the bug.PRESIDENT:Oh. DEAN:If they &#338; It`s a custom-made product.-8-PRESIDENT:Oh.DEAN:If they can get back to the man whomanufactured it, then they can find out who he sold it to, and how it came down throughthe chain.PRESIDENT:Boy, you know, you never know. When thoseguys get after it, they can find it. They--DEAN:The resources that have been put againstthis whole investigation to date are really incredible. It's truly a, it's truly a larger investigation than was conductedagainst, uh, the after inquiry of the JFKassassination.PRESIDENT:Oh.DEAN:And good statistics supporting that.Kleindienst is going to have a --HALDEMAN:Isn't that ridiculous though? PRESIDENT:What is?HALDEMAN:This silly ass damn thing.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:That kind of resources against ---9-PRESIDENT:Yeah for Christ's sake [unintelligible]HALDEMAN:Who the hell cares? PRESIDENT:Goldwater put it in context, he said "Well,for Christ's sake, everybody bugs everybodyelse. We know that."DEAN:That was, that was priceless. HALDEMAN:Yeah. I bugged --PRESIDENT:Well, it's true. It happens to be totallytrue.DEAN:[Unintelligible] PRESIDENT:We were bugged in '68 on the plane andbugged in '62, uh, even running forGovernor. God damnedest thing you ever saw.DEAN:It was a shame that, that evidence to thefact that that happened in '68 was neverpreserved around. I understand that only the former Director had that information.HALDEMAN:No, that's not true.DEAN:There was direct evidence of it?PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:There's others who have that information.-10-PRESIDENT:Others know it.DEAN:DeLoach? PRESIDENT:DeLoach, right. HALDEMAN:I've got some stuff on it, too, in thebombing halt study. 'Cause it's all --that's why, the, the stuff I`ve got we don'tPRESIDENT:The difficulty with using it, of course, isthat it reflects on Johnson.DEAN:Right. PRESIDENT:He ordered it. If it weren't for that, I'duse it. Is there any way we could use itwithout reflecting on Johnson? How -Now,could we say, could we say that the Democratic National Committee did it? No,the FBI did the bugging, though.HALDEMAN:That's the problem. DEAN:Is it going to reflect on Johnson orHumphrey?HALDEMAN:Johnson. Humphrey didn't do it.DEAN:Humphrey didn't do it? PRESIDENT:Oh, hell no.-11-HALDEMAN:He was bugging Humphrey, too. [Laughs]PRESIDENT:Oh, God damn. HALDEMAN:[Laughs] PRESIDENT:Well, on the other hand, maybe, uh -- I'lltell you who to call. I want you to askConnally. Whatever he thinks, maybe we ought to just, just let that one fly. Imean, I don't think he will, I don't thinkhe will [unintelligible] Johnson. [Unintelligible]. And also it reflects on the Bureau. [Unintelligible]DEAN:[Unintelligible]PRESIDENT:They, they, they hate to admit that -- HALDEMAN:It`s a rough one on them with, with all thisstuff about they don't do Congressmen, andall thatPRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:sort of stuff [unintelligible]PRESIDENT:I --HALDEMAN:do a presidential [unintelligible] PRESIDENT:It isn't worth it. It isn't worth it, damnit. It isn't worth -- the hell with it.What is the situation on your,-12-uh, on the, on the little red box? Did theyfind what the hell that, that is? Have they found the box yet?DEAN:Gray has never had access to the box. He isnow going to pursue the box. I spoke withhim just, just about, uh, oh, thirty minutes ago and Pat said, "I don't know about thebox. Uh, don't know where it is now. Wenever had an opportunity before, when it was, first, uh, released in the press there was a box, to go in. But," he said, "Ithink we have grounds now to go in and findout what it's all about."HALDEMAN:The last public story was that she handed itover to Edward Bennett Williams.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Perhaps the Bureau ought to go over -- HALDEMAN:The Bureau ought to go into Edward BennettWilliams and let's start questioning thatson-of-a-bitch. Keep him tied up for a couple of weeks.PRESIDENT:Yeah, I hope they do. They --The Bureaubetter get over pretty quick and get thatred box. We want it cleared up [Unintelligible]DEAN:That's exactly the way I, I gave it to Gray.I, uh, uh---13-PRESIDENT:We want it cleared up. We want to get tothe bottom of it. If anybody is guilty over here we want to know.HALDEMAN:[Unintelligible] in the news. [Laughs]DEAN:Another interesting thing that's developedis, regarding the private litigation we've got is, uh, the Stans' libel action wasassigned to Judge Richey.PRESIDENT:Oh, Christ. DEAN:Well, now, that's good and bad. Uh, JudgeRichey is not known to be one of theintellects on the bench. That's conceded bymany that he is uh, uh --PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] in his own stupid way he'ssort of, uh --DEAN:Well, he's been thoroughly candid in hisdealing with people about the case. He's made several entrees, uh, off the bench, to,to, uh, (1) to Kleindienst; (2) to, uh, hisold friend Roemer McPhee, to keep Roemer abreast of what his thinking is. He told Roemer he thought that Maury ought to file alibel action.PRESIDENT:Did he? DEAN:[Laughs]PRESIDENT:Good.&#338;14-DEAN:Uh --HALDEMAN:Well, can he deal with that caseconcurrently with the other case?DEAN:Yeah. The, the fact that the, the civilcase came to a halt, that the depositionswere halted and he --HALDEMAN:opened his calendar for a few days.DEAN:Well, it did that, and more than that. Hehad been talking to Silbert, and Silbert, uh, the U. S. Attorney down here, the Assistant U. S. Attorney was saying, "We aregoing to have a hell of a time drawing theseindictments up because of the fact these civil depositions keep coming out and theGrand Jury's got one eye on this civil casebecause they don't want to get themselves caught, uh, coming out with indictments and the civil case'll do something differently,so --UNIDENTIFIED:Would you like to take Clark now, sir? HALDEMAN:MacGregor's call? PRESIDENT:Yeah. Go ahead.DEAN:So, based, based on that, uh, uh, whenSilbert had told Richey this and had a casual encounter -- in fact, uh, it-15-was just in the hall -- Richey, the nextthing he does is he stops the civil case so Silbert can get the indictment down.[Telephone rings]PRESIDENT:Hm.DEAN:So it's, it's, uh &#338; he`s got, he`s got theabuse of process suit also. [Unintelligible]PRESIDENT:Yeah. Hello.Well you still alive? Yeah, yeah. I was just sitting here with John Dean andhe tells me that, uh, that you, that you'regoing to probably be sued or some dam thing, I don't know.DEAN orOh, God. Now don't say that.HALDEMAN: PRESIDENT:Did you put that last bug in?Yeah. [Unintelligible] suit.[Unintelligible]. Yeah.Yeah. That's right, that's right.[Unintelligible]Yeah.Good. Sure.-16-Well, I'll tell you, uh, just don't let thiskeep you or your colleagues from concentrating on the big game. Yeah, that's right. I mean this, uh, this thing is just,uh, you know, one of those side issues and amonth later everybody looks back and wonders what the hell the shouting was about.Yeah. Yeah.Okay, well, anyway get a good night's sleep.And don't don't bug anybody without asking me. Okay?Yeah.DEAN:Three months ago I would have had troublepredicting where we'd be today. I thinkthat I can say that fifty-four days from nowthat, uh, not a thing will come crashing down to our, our surprise.PRESIDENT:Say what?DEAN:Nothing is going to come crashing down toour surprise, either --PRESIDENT:Well, the whole thing is a can of worms. Asyou know, a lot of this stuff went on. And,uh, and, uh, and the people who worked[unintelligible] awfully embarrassing. And, uh, and, the, uh, but the, but the way you,you've handled it, it seems to me, has beenvery skillful, because you --putting your fingers in the dikes every time that leaks have sprung here and sprung there.[Unintelligible] having people straightenthe [unintelligible]. The Grand Jury is dismissed now?DEAN:That is correct. They'll, they will havecompleted and-17-they will let them go, so there will nocontinued investigation prompted by the Grand Jury's inquiry. The, uh, GAO report that was referred over to Justice is on ashelf right now because they have hundredsof violations. They've got violations of McGovern's; they've got violations ofHumphrey's; they've got Jackson violations,and several hundred Congressional violations. They don't want to start prosecuting one any more than they want theother. So that's, uh --PRESIDENT:They damn well not prosecute us unless theyprosecute all the others.DEAN:That's right. That's right. Well, we arereally talking about technical violations that were referred over also.PRESIDENT:Sure. Sure. What about, uh, uh, watchingthe McGovern contributors and all that sortof thing?DEAN:We've got a, we've got a hawk's eye on that. PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:And, uh, uh, he is, he is not in fullcompliance.PRESIDENT:He isn't?DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:Well, now, he has his three-hundredcommittees; have they all reported yet? Have we -- we reported ours-18-DEAN:Yes we -- Well, we have a couple ofdelinquent state committees out, uh--PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible) if it's done, huh? DEAN:If they --PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] paper committees allreported, the three-hundred or so committees he's supposed to have.DEAN:No, they have not.PRESIDENT:Can we say something about that, or have we? DEAN:Well, one of the things that he has notdone, is he has never disclosed the factthat he's got some three hundred committees.This has been a Wall Street Journal piecethat picked it up and carried it and, uh --PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] say that publicly?DEAN:No, he hasn't. And it's been employed as atax sham that he set it up for. And -- It is hard to comprehend why he set upthree-hundred committees, frankly. Uh, hedoesn't need that many, he doesn't have that sort of large contributors, where they have to disburse small [unintelligible]HALDEMAN:Unless someone's giving nine hundredthousand dollars.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Which could be very possible.-19-HALDEMAN:He may be getting nine hundred thousanddollars from somebody.PRESIDENT:From two or three. He may have some bigangels. I don't think he is getting a hellof a lot of small money. I don't think so.I don't believe this crap. I mean if he -- Have you had your Post Office check yet?HALDEMAN:That John was going to do. I don't know.PRESIDENT:That's an interesting thing to check. HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:You know how little [unintelligible]DEAN:[Unintelligible] is right, because as I seeit, now, the only problems that, uh, that we have are, are the human problems and we'llkeep a close eye on that.PRESIDENT:Union? DEAN:Human. PRESIDENT:Oh.DEAN:(Unintelligible]HALDEMAN:People --Human frailties, where people fallapart.-20-DEAN:Human frailties -- people getting annoyedand some finger-pointing and false accusations, and any internal dissension of that nature.PRESIDENT:You mean on this case?DEAN:On this case. Uh, there is some bitternessbetween, for example, the finance committeeand the political committee. They feel thatthey're taking all the heat, and, and, uh, all the people upstairs are bad people and they're not being recognized.PRESIDENT:Ridiculous.DEAN:It is -- I mean -- PRESIDENT:They're all in it together.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:They should just, uh, just behave and, and,recognize this, this is, again, this is war, We're getting a few shots and it'll be over.And, we'll give them a few shots. It'll beover. Don't worry. [Unintelligible]. I wouldn't want to be on the other side right now. Would you? I wouldn't want to be inEdward Bennett Williams', Williams' positionafter this election.-21-DEAN:No. No.PRESIDENT:None of these bastards -- DEAN:He, uh, he's done some rather unethicalthings that have come to light already,which in -- again, Richey has brought to ourattention.PRESIDENT:Yeah?DEAN:He went down --HALDEMAN:Keep a log on all that. DEAN:Oh, we are, on these. Yeah. PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:Because afterwards that is a guy,PRESIDENT:We're going after him. HALDEMAN:that is a guy we've got to ruin.DEAN:He had, he had an ex parte --PRESIDENT:You want to remember, too, he`s an attorneyfor the Washington Post.DEAN:I'm well aware of that.PRESIDENT:I think we are going to fix theson-of-a-bitch.-22-Believe me. We are going to. We've got to,because he's a bad man.DEAN:Absolutely. PRESIDENT:He misbehaved very badly in the Hoffamatter. Our -- some pretty bad conduct,there, too, but go ahead.DEAN:Well, that's, uh, along that line, uh, oneof the things I've tried to do, is just keepnotes on a lot of the people who are emerging as,PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:as less than our friends.PRESIDENT:Great. DEAN:Because this is going to be over someday andthey're -- We shouldn't forget the way someof them have treated us.PRESIDENT:I want the most, I want the mostcomprehensive notes on all of those thathave tried to do us in. Because they didn'thave to do it.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:They didn't have to do it. I mean, if thething had been a clo--, uh, they had a veryclose election&#338;23-everybody on the other side would understandthis game. But now they are doing this quite deliberately and they are asking for it and they are going to get it. And this,this-- We, we have not used the power inthis first four years, as you know.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:We have never used it. We haven't used theBureau and we haven't used the Justice Department, but things are going to change now. And they're going to change, and, andthey're going to get it right --DEAN:That's an exciting prospect. PRESIDENT:It's got to be done. It's the only thing todo.HALDEMAN:We've got to. PRESIDENT:Oh, oh, well, we've just been, we've beenjust God damn fools. For us to come intothis election campaign and not do anythingwith regard to the Democratic senators who are running, and so forth. [Characterizations deleted] That'd beridiculous. Absolutely ridiculous. It's notgoing, going to be that way any more, and, uh &#338;-24-HALDEMAN:Really, it's ironic, you know, becausewe've. gone to such extremes to do every--. You know, you, you and your damn regulations withPRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:Everybody worries about, PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:about picking up a hotel bill or anything.DEAN:Well, I think, we can, I think, I think wecan be proud of the White House staff. It really has,PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:had no problems of that -- PRESIDENT:Well, that's right.DEAN:And they're looking, this GAO audit that'sgoing on right now, uh, I think that they have got some suspicion, uh, in even a cursory investigation, which is not going todiscover anything, that they're going tofind something here. I learned today, incidentally, that, that, uh, I haven't confirmed this because it's -- came from theGO, GAO auditor, investigator who's downhere, that he is down here at the Speaker of the House's request, which surprised me.-25-HALDEMAN:Well, God damn the Speaker of the House.Maybe we better put a little heat on him.PRESIDENT:I think so too. HALDEMAN:Because he's got a lot worse problems thanhe's going to find down here.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:I know.HALDEMAN:That`s the kind of thing --PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] let the police department[unintelligible]HALDEMAN:That's the kind of thing that, you know, you-- What we really ought to do is call theSpeaker and say, "I regret to see you ordering GAO down here because of what it'sgoing to cause us to require to do to you."PRESIDENT:Why don`t you just have Harlow go see himand tell him that?HALDEMAN:Because he wouldn't do it.PRESIDENT:Huh?HALDEMAN:'Cause he wouldn't do it. PRESIDENT:Harlow wouldn't do it, you mean. HALDEMAN:Harlow would say, "Mr. Speaker --PRESIDENT:Yeah.&#338;26-DEAN:I, I suppose the other area we are going tosome publicity on in the coming weeks because, uh, I think after the, now that the indictments are down, there's going to be acresting on that. The whitewash charge ofcourse, but, uh, I think we can handle that while the civil case is in abeyance. ButPatman's hearings, uh, his Banking andCurrency Committee, and we've got to -- whether we will be successful or not in turning that off, I don't know. We've got aplan whereby Rothblatt and Bittman, who arecounsel for the five men who were, or actually a total of seven, that wereindicted today, are going to go up and visitevery member and say, "If you commence hearings you are going to jeopardize the civil rights of these individuals in theworst way, and they'll never get a fairtrial," and the like, and try to talk to members on, on that level. Uh --PRESIDENT:Why not ask that they request to be heardby, by the Committee and explain itpublicly?DEAN:How could they -- They've planned that whatthey're going to say is, "If you do commencewith these hearings, we plan to publicly come up and say what you're doing to the rights of individuals.&#64258; Something to thateffect.-27-PRESIDENT:As a matter of fact they could even make amotion in court to get the thing dismissed.DEAN:That's another thing we're doing is to, is PRESIDENT:Because these hearings --DEAN:bring an injunctive action against, uh, theappearance, say --HALDEMAN:Well, going the other way, the dismissal ofthe, of the, of the indictment --PRESIDENT:How about trying to get the criminal cases,criminal charges dismissed on the grounds that there, well, you know --HALDEMAN:The civil rights type stuff.DEAN:Civil rights -- Well that, we're workingagain, we've got somebody approaching theACLU for these guys, and have them go up andexert some pressure because we just don't want Stans up there in front of the cameras with Patman and Patman asking all thesequestions. It's just going to be the wholething, the press going over and over and over again. Uh, one suggestion was that Connally is, is close to Patman and probablyif anybody could talk turkey to Patman, uh,Connally might be able to. Now I don't know if that's, uh, a good idea or not. Idon't think he -- don't know if he can. Uh,Jerry Ford is not really taking an active interest in this matter that, that is developing, so Stans can go see Jerry&#338;28-Ford and try to brief him and explain to himthe problems he's got. And then the other thing we are going to do is we're looking at all the campaign reports of every member ofthat Committee because we are convinced thatnone of them have probably totally complied with the law either. And if they want toget into it, if they want to play rough,some day we better say, "Well, gentlemen, we think we ought to call to your attention that you haven't complied A, B, C, D, E, andF, and we're not going to hold that a secretif you start talking campaign violations here."PRESIDENT:Uh, what about Ford? Do you think so?[Unintelligible] do anything with Patman? Connally can't be sent up there.HALDEMAN:[Unintelligible]PRESIDENT:ConnallyDEAN:If anybody can do it -- PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] Patman. DEAN:But if, if Ford can get the minoritymembers, uh, together on that one, it'sgoing to be a lot --PRESIDENT:They've got a very weak man in Widnall,unfortunately. Heckler is all right.-29-HALDEMAN:Heckler was great.DEAN:She was great, with, uh -- PRESIDENT:That's what I understand, but you see,Widnall -- let's take somebody -- Gerrycould talk to him. Put it down, uh, Gerryshould talk to Widnall and, uh, just brace him, tell him I thought it was[unintelligible] start behaving. Not let himbe the chairman of the Committee in the House. That's what you want?DEAN:That would be very helpful, to get ourminority side at least together on thething.PRESIDENT:Jerry has really got to lead on this. He'sgot to be really be [unintelligible]HALDEMAN:Jerry should, damn it. This is exactly thething he was talking about, that the reason they are staying in is so that they canPRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:run investigations. PRESIDENT:Well, the point is that they ought to raisehell about this uh, this -- these hearingsare jeopardizing the &#338;-30-I don't know that they're, that the, the,the counsel calling on the members of the Committee will do much good. I was, I -- it may be all right but -- I was thinking thatthey really ought to blunderbuss in thepublic arena. It ought to be publicized.DEAN:Right.HALDEMAN:Good.DEAN:Right. PRESIDENT:That's what this is, public relations. DEAN:That's. that's all it is, particularly ifPatman pulls the strings off, uh -- That'sthe last forum that, uh, uh, it looks like it could be a problem where you just havethe least control the way it stands rightnow. Kennedy has also suggested he may call hearings of his Administrative Practices and Procedure Subcommittee. Uh, as, as this casehas been all along, you can spin outhorribles that, uh, you, you can conceive of, and so we just don't do that. I stopped doing that about, uh, two months ago.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:We just take one at a time and you deal withit based on &#338;-31-PRESIDENT:And you really can't just sit and worryyourselfDEAN:No. PRESIDENT:about it all the time, thinking, "The worstmay happen," but it may not. So you justtry to button it up as well as you can and hope for the best. And,DEAN:Well if Bob --PRESIDENT:and remember that basically the damn thingis just one of those unfortunate things and we're trying to cut our losses.DEAN:Well, certainly that's right and certainlyit had no effect on you. That's the, the good thing.HALDEMAN:It really hasn't.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] HALDEMAN:No, it hasn't. It has been kept away fromthe White House almost completely and fromthe President totally. The only tie to theWhite House has been the Colson effort they keep trying to haul in.DEAN:And now, of course,HALDEMAN:That's falling apart.-32-DEAN:the two former White House people, lowlevel, indicted, one consultant and one member of the Domestic Council staff. That's not very much of a tie.HALDEMAN:No.PRESIDENT:Well, their names have been alreadymentioned.DEAN:Oh, they've been --PRESIDENT:Voluminous accounts. HALDEMAN:And it's. it's been discounted -- PRESIDENT:You know, they've already been convicted inthe press.DEAN:Absolutely. HALDEMAN:Yep.PRESIDENT:God damn it, if they'd been communists you'dhave the Washington Post and the New YorkTimes raising hell about their civil rights.DEAN-That's right.PRESIDENT:Or Manson.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Jesus Christ. If they'd been killers,wouldn't --DEAN:That's right.-33-PRESIDENT:Isn't that true?DEAN:It's absolutely true. PRESIDENT:These poor bastards are -- well they've been-- they've got no way they can ever -- Infact, they ought to move the, uh, move thetrial away from the --DEAN:Well, there has been extensive clipping bythe counsel in this case, and I've gonethrough some of these clippings and it's just phenomenal the, uh,PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:the amount of coverage this case is getting.They may never get a fair trial, may never get a fair trial. They may never get a jurythat can convict them or pull it together.And the Post, as you know, has got a, a, areal large team that they've assigned to do nothing but this,PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:this case. Couldn't believe they put MauryStans' story about his libel suit, which was just playing so heavily on the networks lastnight, and in the evening news, they put itway back on about page eight of the Post.PRESIDENT:Sure.-34-DEAN:and didn't even cover it as a -- in total.PRESIDENT:I expect that. That's all right. We've[unintelligible]HALDEMAN:The Post is --PRESIDENT:The Post has asked -- it's going to have itsproblems.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible]DEAN:The networks, the networks are good withMaury coming back three days in a row and --PRESIDENT:That's right. Right. The main thing is thePost is going to have damnable, damnableproblems out of this one. They have a television stationDEAN:That's right, they do.PRESIDENT:and they're going to have to get it renewed.HALDEMAN:They've got a radio station, too. PRESIDENT:Does that come up too? The point is, whendoes it come up?DEAN:I don't know. But the practice ofnon-licensees filing on top of licensees has certainly gotten more,PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:more active in the, in the area.-35-PRESIDENT:And it's going to be God damn active here.DEAN:[Laughs] PRESIDENT:Well, the game has to be played awfullyrough. I don't know --.Now, you, you'llfollow through with -- who will over there?Who -- Timmons, or with Ford, or How's it going to operate?HALDEMAN:I'll talk to Bill. I think -- yeah.DEAN:Dick Cook has been working HALDEMAN or[Unintelligible] PRESIDENT:DEAN:on it.HALDEMAN:Cook is the guy. DEAN:Dick has been working on it.PRESIDENT:Maybe Mitchell should --HALDEMAN:Well, maybe Mitchell ought to -- would,could Mitchell do it?PRESIDENT:No.DEAN:I don't really think that would be good.PRESIDENT:No.-36-DEAN:I hate to draw him in.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:I think Maury can talk to Ford if that willdo any good, but it won't have the sameimpact, of course, 'cause he's the onedirectly involved, but I think Maury ought to brief Ford at some point on, on exactlywhat his whole side of the story is.HALDEMAN:I'll talk to Cook. PRESIDENT:Oh, I think Ehrlichman should talk to him.Ehrlichman understands the law, and therest, and should say, "Now God damn it, getthe hell over with this."HALDEMAN:Is that a good idea? Maybe it is.PRESIDENT:I think maybe that's the thing to do(unintelligible]. This is, this is big, big play. I'm getting into this thing. So that he -- he's got to know that it comes fromthe top.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:That's what he's got to know, DEAN:Right.PRESIDENT:and if he (unintelligible] and we`re notgoing to can't talk to him myself -- and that he's got to get at this and screw thisthing up while he can, right?-37-DEAN:Well, if we let that slide up there with thePatman Committee it'd be just, you know, just a tragedy to let Patman have a field day up there.PRESIDENT:What's the first move? When does he call hiswit--, witnesses?DEAN:Well, he, he has not even gotten the vote ofhis Committee; he hasn't convened hisCommittee yet on whether he can call hearings. That's why, come Monday morning, these attorneys are going to arrive, uh, onthe doorstep of the Chairman and try to tellhim what he's doing if he proceeds. Uh, one of the members, Gary Brown, uh, wroteKleindienst a letter saying, "If theChairman holds Committee hearings on this, isn't this going to jeopardize your criminal case?"PRESIDENT:Brown's a smart fellow. He's from, he'sfrom MichiganDEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:and some tie into Ford. He's very, he's avery smart fellow. Good.DEAN:Good lawyer and he's being helpful. He isanxious to help.-38-PRESIDENT:Right, just tell him that, tell, tell, tellEhrlichman to get Brown in and Ford in and then they can all work out something. But, they ought to get off their asses and pushit. No use to let Patman have a free ridehere.DEAN:Well, we can, we can keep them well briefedon moves if they'll, if they'll move when weprovide them with the, the strategy. And we will have a raft of depositions going the other way soon. We will be hauling the,the, O'Briens in and the like, and, uh, onour abuse of process suit.PRESIDENT:What are you going to ask him?[unintelligible] questions?DEAN:No. This fellow, this fellow Rothblatt, whohas started deposing, uh, he`s quite a character. He's been getting into the sexlife of some of the members of the DNC and--PRESIDENT:Why? How can -What's his justification? DEAN:Well, he's working on an entrapment theorythat, uh, uh, they were hiding something orthey had secret information, affairs to hide and they, they could, some way, conspire tobring this thing about themselves.-39-It's a, it's a way-out theory that, uh, noone had [unintelligible]HALDEMAN:[Laughs] DEAN:Uh. and he, he had scheduled PatriciaHarris and she didn't show up. She went tothe beauty parlor instead so he went down to the Court House and she had, had beendirected to show up and then the next daythe Judge cut all the depositions off. But he had a host of wild questions including, you know, where O'Brien got his compensationwhen he was Chairman. Not that he knowsanything about that, but, uh, it was just an interesting question he thought he mightwant to ask the, the Chairman under oath.HALDEMAN:That's -- It gives us, uh, the same huntinglicense that it gave them.DEAN:That's right.HALDEMAN:So we can play the same game they areplaying, but we ought to be able to do better at it.PRESIDENT:Well --HALDEMAN:Are those depositions sealed?-40-DEAN:That's right.HALDEMAN:They are? DEAN:But that argues that, uh, they won't wantthem unsealed. They'll want them unsealedless than we will, and we may be arguing atsome point to get them unsealed.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:I think what's going to happen on the civilcase is the Judge is going to dismiss the pending complaint down there right now. They will then turn around and file a newcomplaint which will be (unintelligible]come back to Richey again. That, uh, that'll probably happen the twentieth,twenty-first, twenty-second. Then twentydavs will run until any answers will have to be filed and these depositions will be commenced so we're, what, we're eating up anawful lot of time for those next fifty-fourdays.HALDEMAN:On the other side. PRESIDENT:Why will they have to dismiss the present --DEAN:Uh, probably on, on a dual ground, uh, bothon the substantive ground that they haven't stated a good cause-41-of action -- that there is a improper classaction filed and that O'Brien indeed doesn't represent any class. Uh, and he'll just dismiss it on the merits. It's not a goodcomplaint. He's already shaved it down toalmost nothing on his original order. They will then have to re-design it into a muchnarrower action, but the Judge himself can'tsuggest something to counsel. But it's -- you've got a good res judicata argument here. If he dismisses on the merits, uh,that they can't file another suit. They`reout of the court totally.HALDEMAN:But our suits do still hang?DEAN:Our suits are still -- We have two suits,and we have the abuse of process andHALDEMAN:--the libel -- DEAN:the libel suit.HALDEMAN:We can take depositions on both of those?DEAN:Absolutely. PRESIDENT:Hell yes. HALDEMAN:[Laughs]-42-PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] depositions.DEAN:It's a, it's a glimmer down the road anyway,but, uh &#338;-43-