TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A PORTION OF A MEETING IN THE OVALOFFICE BETWEEN PRESIDENT NIXON AND JOHN EHRLICHMAN FROM 9:35 TO10:05 a.m. ON FEBRUARY 23, 1973TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A PORTION OF AMEETING IN THE OVAL OFFICE BETWEEN PRESIDENTNIXON AND JOHN EHRLICHMAN FROM 9:35 TO 10:05a.m. ON FEBRUARY 23, 1973President:(unintelligible)Now on Kleindienst - uh, I want to talk with youlater perhaps (pause) I might decide at thismeeting (unintelligible/REMOVED) tomorrow(unintelligible/REMOVED) but, uh, see what I mean?(unintelligible/REMOVED) Baker's, uh, Baker's lineis about what you'd expect,(unintelligible/REMOVED), he says that he wouldlike to have his contact be Kleindienst. He andErvin met with Kleindienst, er, Kleindienst hassome great store with Ervin(unintelligible/REMOVED) I, of course, threw Deanat him (unintelligible/REMOVED) on that he didn'tsay anything against him but he did say that he(unintelligible/REMOVED) then, of course, WallyJohnson and uh -- The other point that he made isthatEhrlichman:Hmm.President:...uh which, which, which leads me to believe andI just want to be sure that, that I get Kleindienst on our line -- our tug. And then lethim be the settler. Now -- does that bother youor not?Ehrlichman:Doesn't bother me if he'll do it. He' -- he --uh, and here's the way to get him to do it, Ithink.President:It's gonna be Goddamned (unintelligible) Ehrlichman:Kleindienst has a kind of a metaphysicalattachment to John Mitchell.President:I don't want to scare him to death I said to him, Isaid, (unintelligible) I put it very hard. I put itvery hard. And I'll talk too a little about thistomorrow because I put it very hard to, uh, Bakerabout Mitchell.Ehrlichman:Good.President:Because, because Baker's, you know, hintingabout the White House staff and all that and Isaid, well, I checked 'em all over and I saidunless somebody's lyin', I said my mainconcern however, he said what do you(unintelligible) someone of these seven orsomebody that's around there at a lower levelFebruary 23, 197329:35 to 10:05 a.m.President:(unintelligible) guy who's not even gonna geta(cont.)pension (unintelligible) maybe I should talk tohim I said, "yeah you should have a private talk."So I've gotta get Mitchell in by this coming Monday. Uh, now, that may be, frankly, not quitetrue. I mean uh, you come down to it, as we know-- uh, the, the Magruder thing and the thing I'mconcerned about the Magruder thing is that there'sBob.Ehrlichman: Yeah.President:And that Magruder is just awfully close toBob. And I, uh, don't think Magruder'd saysomething. But he might.Ehrlichman:If he did, he would implicate Mitchell. Hewould protect Bob. I suspect, I think that'sthe way now.President:Now, all right, now on the other one, theother one, no problem with you, as I see it.The other thing is, of course, is Colson.Ehrlichman: Yeah. President:Now, the one that could do him in is Hunt.Ehrlichman: Yup.President:And, uh, the likelihood of that, I think, isnot so great.Ehrlichman:And Magruder.President:And Magruder? How does, did Magruder work withColson?Ehrlichman:Magruder claims to Dean -- and, and Magruder'splaying a game -- he's telling differentpeople different things apparently and I'venot talked to him. But the impression I haveis that Magruder's peddling the line thatColson is the guy who put the unmitigatedpressure on him.President:To change the bug.Ehrlichman:To do this. President:To bug?Ehrlichman: YepFebruary 23, 197339:35 to 10:05 a.m.President:Well, you see, Colson denies that completely.Thank God.Ehrlichman:I know it, I know it.President:I've asked both Bob and Colson.Ehrlichman:Well -- President:Well, I don't know, I can't. You see --onething that we'll talk about tomorrow I havereally got to know whether or not --because,mainly because I, I've gotta go then I'll denythat I ever heard it.Ehrlichman: SurePresident:I've got to know if Bob knew about it. I'vegotta know whether Colson knew about it.Ehrlichman: Yep.President:If they both, if they did, then they're gonnaplay our games...Ehrlichman:That's right.President:'Cause this is how we're gonna -- that's whereexecutive privilege comes in. Now executiveprivilege I got very, hardly any- place onthis idea (unintelligible) Here's his plan which would be a very good one. But we didn'tdo it. It's not bad. But he's on our side.No question about that. He, he, has uh, uh,he isn't going to go on the business of, uh,what the Democrats did to us however, unless -- He says, 'Now let's play it this way.' Hesays what he'd like to do is go to it with the Watergate, which is, uh,Ehrlichman: Yup.President:And I said to him, and I gave him a goodlecture about how the Hiss case was handled, asuccessful investigation (unintelligible) Weruled out hearsay. We ruled out guilt byassociation and innuendo and so forth. I saidyou oughta really insist on that. I'm gonnakeep hitting that line all the time --Ehrlichman:Good, that's good.February 23, 197349:35 to 10:05 a.m.President:He wanted me to make, issue a statement to theeffect that we would cooperate with the committee. Isaid, "Well, I'm gonna have a press conference oneof these days," and I'll so say. I've always statedthat. I, uh, I mean, I'm not going to put out anywritten statement to the effect, somebody's going toask me and I'll say that it's, uh, Justice Department. Now -- he then says, however, that theway he feels, he feels the way the thing will workbad, and I think he's correct in his strategy here,would be to call a lot of pipsqueak witnesses,little, little shitasses over periods of weeks tobuild it up and then build up the, build up the pressure to call -- now you've gotta call, uh, Colson,&#8211;Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:...you gotta call Haldeman, Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:...you gotta call, uh, Ehrlichman and Chapin whoeverthe hell, sorry, they'll have Chapin, anyway. Hesays that he believes, his strategy is this: Hethinks they're, they should conduct their own privateinvestigation now and then he's gonna contact Ervinabout going to send the seven guys over here -- the big fish. What's all this shuffling about? Thequestion is whether or not it goes higher. And solet's, what he believes that they should try to callthe big men right away. Prick the boil and then fromthen on everybody's going to be bored to death. Nowthat is good strategy provided you can call. I said,well now we can't do this because of executiveprivilege -- I said, you can't deny this.Ehrlichman: Yeah. President:He said, well, what he, what he's talking about,he's, uh, he has sounded Ervin and limits it to,total limitation as to the subjects and Ervin'll ruleout all other questions and so forth. He said thiscould have one hell of a dramatic impact. I saidyeah and I said you're gonna have these peopledragged up. -- Now the real question, John, and you've got to -- you've got to address yourself to itand I think you're better to address yourself to itthan either Bob or Colson. Who, really, are weafraidFebruary 23, 197359:35 to 10:05 a.m.President:of to come out there on executive privilege --(cont.)it's really Bob, Colson's another, I don'tthink you have a problem.Ehrlichman:I don't have the problem.President:You worked with Hunt. Ehrlichman:I don't have the problem.President:(Unintelligible)Ehrlichman:But, uh --President:The point is that I don't want to get Bob orColson frankly, in the position of being up inthe public domain and, uh, going for perjuryEhrlichman:Well, uh.... President:Of course, written interrogatories involveperjury, too.Ehrlichman:All right, you've got three, you, really, wellincluding Stans you've got four big fish --President:Yeah - oh, incidentally that was Ervin'sthing. Evidently he didn't say that, uh, hethought that, uh, he said that he, uh, that hethought that Stans was the one that probablyput 'em on it and I said, 'That is utterly ridiculous' cause I can tell that of all thepeople involved here Stans doesn't know agoddamn thing. He's outraged. He's been sickwith stress. So you see people are getting tohim about stuff.Ehrlichman:Yeah, yeah.President:It's wrong. So I -- Ehrlichman:The money, the money end of this is a troublesome end.President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:Mitchell and Stans are involved in that.President:Yeah, Mitchell and Stans and Kalmbach.Ehrlichman:And Kalmbach, right.President: Right.February 23, 197369:35 to 10:05 a.m.Ehrlichman:Right.President:None of whom we can keep out of testifying.Ehrlichman:And those, those chips are gonna have topretty much fall where they may, as I see it.President:What are they gonna say? Ehrlichman:Well,...President:They raised the money?Ehrlichman:There's, there's a hell of a lot of money andit floated around and there weren't receiptsand there was funny bookkeeping and there wasa lot of hanky panky and money went to Mexicoand back and there were just a hell of a lot of odds and ends of stuff over there. Now,Stans says he's clean and I suspect he is. Ithink he can tell a damn good story.President:Knowing Stans, yes.Ehrlichman:Uh, so - Mitchell was going to end up beingthe fall guy in that.President:What'll Mitchell say?Ehrlichman:I don't know what he'll say. I just don'tknow what he'll say. He's been puffing his pipe and looking at the ceiling and sayingyou, you guys got a problem and uh - we'rebeginning to get to him a little bit. Dean'sbeen hammer ing away on him to impress on himthat he's got a problem here.President:Well, what is he, the money I don't know whatcan he say except to say well I just frankly didn't keep as close enough control...Ehrlichman:Well, I think that's the best...President:...over the disbursement of this money. ...Ehrlichman:...that's his best defense,.President:...I didn't control it.Ehrlichman:...that's his best defense.President:It's his only defense. And it may be correct.February 23, 197379:35 to 10:05 a.m.Ehrlichman:I was at the Justice Department and so on andso forth. Well --President:It may be correct. And it may not be correct.Ehrlichman:I doubt it, I doubt it.President:You think he knew?Ehrlichman:I think he knew and I think LaRue was sort ofhis agent, and uh, and kept him posted, per --President:LaRue?Ehrlichman:Oh, yeah, LaRue's in this thing up to his ass.President:Has he been called?Ehrlichman:LaRue's uh, a mysterious shadowy figure that,uh, hasn't been called and uh, uh, he --President:But he was into it?Ehrlichman:Oh, yeah. Yeah. Now, Bob had what we callconstructive knowledge.President:How, how could that?Ehrlichman:Through a fellow named Gordon Strachan.President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:Gordon Strachan's job here was Bob's liaisonwith the campaign.President:Right.Ehrlichman:Gordon Strachan kept the most meticulousatten tion to the details.President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:But very little of it was, uh, actuallyimparted to Bob. What Strachan was was a sortof a data bank so that if Bob needed to knowsomething he'd pick up the phone and say,"Gordon, what about this or that?&#64258; and heknew.President:My point is, did Bob know that information wascoming from tapped sources?February 23, 197389:35 to 10:05 a.m.Ehrlichman:No, but I suspect Strachan did. And it was asituation where Bob --President:Strachan just mixed.Ehrlichman:Well, Strachan probably never comes into it --probably never does -- because Strachan's job was not to direct anybody to do anything. Hewas just to keep informed.President:Information changer.Ehrlichman:Right.President:O.K.Ehrlichman:Now, on Colson, you have two diametricallyopposite stories.President:You have his --Ehrlichman:You have his and you have Dean's conclusionsborn of a, a lot of odds and ends ofcircumstantial evidence that he's puttingtogether. Dean tells me privately that hethinks that Colson was in fact in meetings andthat Colson probably was the efficient causeof Magruder doing this tap work. Now that'sJohn's -- that's his conclusion based on circumstantial evidence.President:I, uh - don't believe it, I don't think ColsonI believe Colson's totally capable of it. ButI would doubt if Colson would be thatunintelligent, that's all.Ehrlichman:I justI, uh, I --President:A lota lot of people'd love it. Ehrlichman:Well, lemme tell ya....President:But I don't --Ehrlichman:...the, the Hunt trip to Dita Beard was abonehead play.President:Oh it was. Silliest thing I ever heard of.Ehrlichman:And that was a Colson operation,...February 23, 197399:35 to 10:05 a.m.President:I know.Ehrlichman:...from beginning to end, so I, I have to, Ihave to assume that - that Hunt was kindaintrigued with --President:Well, maybe Colson (unintelligible) verypossibly back behind this whole thing -Ehrlichman:I think he was. I think he was cause Hunt's acops and robbers type. Now - I'm not gonnatell you with any degree of assurance thatChuck's involved -President:I know.Ehrlichman:But what's important to know about this isthat there are circumstances which...President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:...diligent counsel could put togetherPresident:Yeah. Yeah. Fine.Ehrlichman:...in the same way as John did.President:Now, the point is, the point is then we cometo the executive privilege thing ...Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:This is gonna be the first thing that we'vegot to decide.Ehrlichman:Right.President:And Kleindienst -- What (unintelligible)language to think about executive privilege --that he should - should, should he insist onwritten interrogatories, then negotiate, uh...Ehrlichman:Well -- President:...from that. I think, I think or should, uh,they say all right go see what they'll workout with regard to a, limited questions,knowing in advance what they've gonna be,period.Ehrlichman:Here's, here's, --February 23, 1973109:35 to 10:05 a.m.President:You understand John. I'm for the writteninterrogatories.Ehrlichman: Sure.President:And I'm not, I (unintelligible) writteninterrogatories but if you go beyond that. Then the committee --, may, we've, we've gotto realize that, that if the committee iseventually going to come down unanimous -- or-- are you going to talk?...Ehrlichman:Yeah, yeah.President:...and I say no, I can't let 'em talk we'rethen in a bind that is impossible.Ehrlichman:I understand.President:I'm not...Ehrlichman:I understand.President:...complaining about the heat, to the last,take the heat.Ehrlichman:All right, here's another way. Ziegler'spoint is that, we were talking about thisyesterday, that the damage that you take is asa result of somebody like me or Bob or somebody walking up the Capitol steps throughthe gauntlet of television camerasPresident: Yeah.Ehrlichman:...regardless of what's said inside.President: Right.Ehrlichman:All right. Supposing you were to say to Ervinand Baker, look you and your two counselPresident:I told him that and he wouldn't buy it.Ehrlichman:...come on down here and talk to...President:Uh, uh --Ehrlichman:...anybody you want?February 23, 1973119:35 to 10:05 a.m.President:I went through that with them. I, I triedthat on them. I, I said, uh, you can comedown, you can examine, you and Ervin and soforth. Uh, now it may be that I should putthat then toI should put that to, uh, them, yeah, as our concession, kinda. That we'll,that we, that he, the two counsel, he, Ervinand the two counseland they can come downand, and, and, and have a damn session.Ehrlichman:Kleindienst could, could carry this --President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:Uh, he could say we're, we're afraid of thisbecoming a circus.President:Yeah, yeah.Ehrlichman:Oh, is there some way of protecting the, uh --President:Now, the point is -- Now, the point is, thoughdid you realize that does not protect us Cols,Colson. That's not going to protect him from-- they, they can go right into Colson and getthe same thing.Ehrlichman:Colson will handle himself beautifully. President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:He's righteously indignant. He's been on theElizabeth Drew show.President: Yeah.Ehrlichman:He's taken the Today Show questions and hesays, hell, I haven't anything to hide and I'mfine, I'm clean and all the rest of it.President:Right, right, right. Except he'll perjurehimself.Ehrlichman:I don't know. I, I can't tell you that'sperjury. All I can tell you -President:The only point about perjury is this -- uh,having proved it in the Hiss case. We had theson of a bitch in the first hearing. Uh, andI did not, with regard the other side of it--whether it's against Mitchell or Colson, it's a hell of a hard rap to prove.February 23, 1973129:35 to 10:05 a.m.Ehrlichman:Oh, sure - and, and --President:Don't you agree? As a, as a trial lawyer?Ehrlichman:That's right and this would be a verycircumstantial case.President:(Unintelligible) And if I, I would need toprove perjury concerned. I don't believe youcan convict a person on circumstantialevidence on perjury. I don't believe it canbe done.Ehrlichman:Well, well --President:You can under the law.Ehrlichman:Well, yes. President:But with Hiss.Ehrlichman: P.R.President:You know how we did it? Oh, you mean P.R.-wise?Ehrlichman:Well, that's what I say. It's very hard to doP.R.-wise.President:I guess, but I just frankly want to keep out--Ehrlichman:You have, you had confrontation. You had oneman, you had the dramatic -President:I'm not thinking -- and also we got thetypewriter.Ehrlichman:Yeah. Sure.President:We proved it out there. That's hard evidence.Ehrlichman: Yep.President:But the confrontation proved it in the publicmind and in this thing the public mind,they're probably going to be convinced.They're gonna believe the worst. They gonnabelieve the worst probably of me, about Boband maybe about Colson.Ehrlichman:I --February 23, 1973139:35 to 10:05 a.m.President:Maybe not Bob.Ehrlichman:I don't think so, I don't think so. Uh -Ronargues that you're convicted the minute youwalk up the Capitol steps.President:I see. Ehrlichman:And that just being dragged out of the WhiteHouse, dragged across town, dragged up thosesteps. -President:I, would guess, of course I didn't tell you,but, and as I, I don't mean that Baker won'tcarry the hod for us, he said, if you'vedecided we'll do it, is that, uh, you know, if you decide -Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:But he says this is what I want you to know...Ehrlichman:Let&#8482;s take the other...President:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;Ehrlichman:Let's take the other case, now. Let's supposewe said as a matter, a matter of longstandingpolicy back seven generations: The President'simmediate staff does not testify, regardlessof what the matter is.President:Right.Ehrlichman:And so in effect we take the 5th Amendment andwe sit here and we just sit it out. Is that, is that worse?President:Yeah -- it's a cover-up. It's a cover-up, Ithink, that's worse than what'll come out, inmy opinion.Ehrlichman:Well, I think so, too.President:I'm afraid, John, I've, I've tried. I'd liketo do that ...Ehrlichman:I think so too.President:...from a personal standpoint but believe me,I've been through this. The cover-up is worsethan whatever comes out. It really is.February 23, 1973149:35 to 10:05 a.m.Ehrlichman:Uh --President:Unless, unless somebody is gonna go to jail.I'm not going to let anybody go to jail. ThatI promise you. That is the worst.Ehrlichman:The, the, uh, all right. President:Cover-up is worse believe me than all thewalking up the Capitol steps. It's worse thanwalking up those Capitol steps.Ehrlichman:Let's suppose Kleindienst negotiated quietlywith Ervin to try and get depositions orinformal interrogations, or whatever...President:Yeah. Ehrlichman:...you wanta call it, here, and comes back andsays I can't get 'em. Then it seems to me thestrong position for you to take is totallyopen-handed. Let it all hang out. Let, let-- you know -- let the, let the breath offreedom blow.President:Right -- and everybody go up.Ehrlichman:And everybody goes up and we saturate them.President:Right. Right, right, at the outset. Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:Well, that's the Baker intent?Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:Well, let me say that I'll start with written,written interrogatories, written interrogatories for the beginning. I mean -- withKleindienst. And then I'll, uh, I'll tell him the, uh, back-up position. But uh, but uh,you can go to the business of their, uh, of adeposition, depositions by the two chairmenand so forth but not under television.Ehrlichman:Now, that would be the other, that would bethe other possibility to go to the committeechambers not in a televised proceeding.February 23, 1973159:35 to 10:05 a.m.President:But (unintelligible), well (unintelligible)No, no, if you go to the committee chambersyou should go, the still pictures, televisionup there.Ehrlichman:In and out, the sketches and all that, yeah. President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:Well -- I think the written interrogatoriesare a good thing. The written's the best butI mean, I really think the compromiseposition, which is an honest and decentcompromise is Ervin, the two senior men plus the two counsel coming down.Ehrlichman:Uh --President:Or we can say that the four could come down.Ehrlichman:Well, or then you can leave it this way, thatif you fellows really turn up something in thecourse of this and I'm confident you won't.President:We'll look again.Ehrlichman:Then come on in and talk to the President.President:Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Ehrlichman:And I'm not, uh --(pause)Unknown:(Unintelligible)President:O.K., now, what do I need to know about thesewith regard to how he feels about(unintelligible) Obviously, it's, --obviously, -- Baker -- Baker incidentally does, he wasn't there (unintelligible) smoothover this or that but Baker said it was agreat mistake when Korologos called and itwas. I didn't know that anybody had Korologoscall him and suggest that Webster be thecounsel. You see I mean, that's, that's,that's what blew that.Ehrlichman:That's silly.February 23, 1973169:35 to 10:05 a.m.President:Who did that? Who suggested that?Ehrlichman:I don't know.President:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;But Korologos telephoned him and he says helikes Tom and the rest, but, uh, when I, uh, Ihad mentioned this -I gave him Webster's name.It may be that Bob in cases like this is alittle bit too direct.Ehrlichman:That's, uh, that's too bad.President:You know, you know, that's --Ehrlichman:We had better channels on Howard than that.President:Well, I thought so, but I, I want you to checkthat out.Ehrlichman:I sure will.President:You better check that out. Ehrlichman:I sure will.President:To rule out such a booboo. I think some ofour relations with the Congress arecomplicated by the fact that wedepartmentalize everything. Bob'll tell(unintelligible) you, go tell Timmons andTimmons'll say Korologos get to see Webster --Ehrlichman:Yeah, yeah -- that's too bad.President:That blew that. That's what blew it. Ehrlichman:Well, o.k., uh --President:He was nice about it, but I could see he wasvery bugged. He just thought it was stupid.Ehrlichman:That - well, I do, too - uh Dean would be theideal contact, but DeanPresident:Suspect.Ehrlichman:Well, he's really not.February 23, 1973179:35 to 10:05 a.m.President:Who likes -- no, no, no. This escapes me, buthow is he with Kleindienst?Ehrlichman:Fine, should be fine, with Kleindienst.President:Right, good, o.k., let me ask you two or threethings before you go, this is on other subjects.