TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING IN THE OVAL OFFICEBETWEEN PRESIDENT NIXON AND RICHARD KLEINDIENST, FEBRUARY23, 1973 FROM 10:08 A.M. TO 10:52 A.M.MEETING BETWEEN PRESIDENT NIXON AND RICHARD KLEINDIENST,FEBRUARY 23, 1973, FROM 10:08 A.M. TO 10:52 A.M.(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Hello Dick. How are you?KLEINDIENST:How are you feeling?PRESIDENT:Good to see you. KLEINDIENST:Nice seeing you.PRESIDENT:Fine, how are you.KLEINDIENST:I feel fine. Ah-ah-ah-ah. PRESIDENT:Well, if I may -I'm not gonna let &#8218;em Idon't want to let &#8218;em -No, I, I was lookingat you just to be sure you're in goodhealth. Thought it'd be a shame to have, to have you do something thatKLEINDIENST:Wouldn't (laughing)PRESIDENT:Ah,... KLEINDIENST:I'm ashamed to have to have you comment onthePRESIDENT:Let's see if I have to sign thisappointment. (Pause) I always, I have these things to sign. There you go. I had a talk with Connally yesterday morning. Personalthing out of the way. I want you to knowthere was (writing noises, unintelligible) He told me about his talks with you and wasalso talking about Diggs (?) or; or -I don'tknow what other -but in terms of the law relation ship we're to go that route. (Unintelligible with background noise) Threeroutes.KLEINDIENST:Where's that? PRESIDENT:First, you should not go with Mitchell. Youmust not do that.2.KLEINDIENST:I've told Kevin that.PRESIDENT:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;Third, Connally's adecent man and, and, uh, I,,-I've had , 'business with his firm. Since held make you one of the managers of the firm,-it's a bigfirm, -you'd have your voice in things. Andsince he would not be pushing you to get in business, you see, you wouldn't have to sell your soul. Uh, very few do (?) getbusiness, by all means. You'd betremendously valuable to them. Uh, you, you might not be, you might choose(unintelligible), running that firm. Uh,you'd make a hell of a lot of money, uh, you'd live in Washington and, uh, if you want to go the law way, that's infinitelybetter than New York firms. New York firmsare selfish, horrible bastards. Texas'd be selfish, too, but they're at least decent about it and, uh Connally would be good.Connally also is gonna be in on a lot ofgood international stuff and you could have a lot of fun with that you wouldn't mind,uh, you know, you'd enjoy moving around theworld and so forth. You'd be a very good asset to him, which I told him, and you could ad, ad -I think you could, you havesomething to bring to him that you can'tbring to Mitchell, uh, and, you don't want to bring to Smathers. The other possibilityyou have in law is to go in for yourself.The difficulty with that is that, then everybody's going to be coming to you, frankly, for influence peddlin'. See theConnally firm is big, established. They'vegot (? Sneeze) clients already and they wouldn't say well, they came because of, uh,that -. . . the main thing I found when Iwent into a firm in New York, they were very nice about it, but, but they did kind of -I felt an obligation to get out and try tohustle some3.PRESIDENT:business for them and, of course, people(Continued)did come to us. Sometimes in the longrange, it was embarrassing. You should never be out feeling that you've got a rodin your back to get out and, you know, uh,to hustle business. You'll do that. You'll do it anyway, but, uh, you must always be ina position, Dick, to be able to turn downsomething that doesn't smell good. There it is.KLEINDIENST:(Unintelligible)How does it sound?PRESIDENT:Now, you just think about it.(Unintelligible) about the same.KLEINDIENST:My goodness.PRESIDENT:Connally is so decent about it and(unintelligible)KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:I had a good talk with him and I think itmay helped to start your (unintelligible)because he already compiled -(unintelligible) ideal. Your age is right. See you're under fifty and you see, mostsenior partners, you'd have to be sixty orold-five or sixty-five. Most of them are senile. So you are at the tight age. Youmust (unin telligible; background noise) Youmight want to consider even -you might even go to Houston, at some point, you know, you might go to, uh -you'd, uh, it's a, it's a,it's a, it's a hell of a firm. It's one ofthe big firms.KLEINDIENST:It's actually bigger than any firm in NewYork, now, it's 200 lawyers.PRESIDENT:200 lawyers. Christ, it's bigger thanMitchell's. Mitchell's 130 or forty, I think.KLEINDIENST:(Unintelligible)&#8211;PRESIDENT:But the bigness it not...4.KLEINDIENST:...(Unintelligible) of the law that dictatesthat I can't negotiate about something like that.PRESIDENT: Yeah.KLEINDIENST:... while I'm in the Department, I think.PRESIDENT:Right. You shouldn't. KLEINDIENST:I'm not having any further conversations...PRESIDENT: Yeah.KLEINDIENST:...about the job. PRESIDENT: Right. KLEINDIENST:I think you and IPRESIDENT:Right, right.KLEINDIENST:...had a general attitude about... PRESIDENT:I think what you should do is to tell lemyou can't negotiate. You shouldn't, matterof fact, you should never get out that you're talking to &#8218;em. But my own view is, that if you were to -of course some otherthing you could do would be to take over asthe head of a corporation but...KLEINDIENST:I don't want to that. PRESIDENT:...pain in the ass. My view isKLEINDIENST:(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:...it would be better to have -you're alawyer. You like to be, uh -you like thelaw, and, uh, and, uh, if I were you, if Iwere to advise you I'd sort of gee tell John about people now. I told John that if you were to go (unintelligible) here, which he,of course, appreciates. He's gotta(unintelligible) too. But, uh, he doesn'thave to (unintelligible/REMOVED) Now theother thing I wanted5.PRESIDENT:to get in to, obviously, is Watergate(Continued)and, uh, want to talk to you candidly aboutit and this, and this affects your plans. You were talking about staying on throughuh, July or August or something like that.Uh, I had thought . . .KLEINDIENST:I'll stay on as long, long as you want.PRESIDENT:...as, as, as, as, -I would like for you tostay, I'd like to ask you to stay and I want you to tell Connally this, uh -thru until their reports, I never assumed that youshould be here. I think it's another reasonfor that. From your own standpoint, if you could really come to think about it, I mean,uh, uh, -&#8218;cause you know, I, I felt youshould stay at least through the session, but my, my view is that if you'd should stay through the year -if you leave earlier, youhave a new Attorney General in there who'sgotta go through all this. You've really got to be the guy who's in there, leading the Department. I think also, either theDepartment,-you've gotta say you have noplans to leave, you, uh, -at this point and you can say, you want to stay through theyear. And I think that's, that's what youshould do and I think -and I know this is, it's is gonna cost you half a year. You will lose a hundred thousand dollars. Let'sface it. But if you would stay through theyear, I would appreciate it.KLEINDIENST:I wanna stay there as long as you want me,Mr. President.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Now understand, when I say throughthe year, I mean, their damned report's supposed to come out in February and, Imean, you oughta be there so you can controlit. And then I'd get out, if I were you. Before we get into the election year, so as-another thing I told Connally, I mean youshould -this is just, (unintelligible) I don't know what his political plans are. We're trying, of course, to have him notleave. (Unintelligible)6.KLEINDIENST:He's never tell you about politics even(unintelligible) switch.PRESIDENT:But.-I said, I said, you know I, John, asfar as your options are concerned, if youshould decide to move on their side I saidyou couldn't have a better moment than (unintelligible). Incidentally,incidentally there (unintelligible) delegate(unintelligible) and, uh, which I, and I think you're, but -I think you oughta stay here. I think too if you were to move outearlier, at this point. Uh, I didn'trealize Watergate wouldn't be over, you know, in six months but they're gonna,Christ, they're gonna take years to run theGod damned thing and I think that -you had nothing to do-with Watergate, as you know, not a God damned thing. Mitchell did, andso consequently if you were to go to talk to(unintelligible).KLEINDIENST:Another reason, why I was thinking about itearlier when I, when I went up to CampDavid, in my initial conversation withHaldeman and Ehrlichman, they both indicated to me that they knew that I was(unintelligible) .PRESIDENT: Yeah. KLEINDIENST: Yeah. PRESIDENT:Well, they were, they were thinking at thattime, that that would be over, you see, atthat time, that that would be over. But now, it isn't. And if you'd stay throughthe year, a year's a good time anyway.Suppose the problem (unintelligible) -well, you're gonna stay anyway.KLEINDIENST:Of course I am.PRESIDENT: Great.KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:All right.7.KLEINDIENST:Yes sir.PRESIDENT:Now let me come to the point. Uh -- KLEINDIENST:Well, Mt. President,. PRESIDENT:I won't argue . . .KLEINDIENST:Now listen, stay there, this isn't your(unintelligible), it's my life, you know. This . . .PRESIDENT:How's Sneed doing, my old friend?KLEINDIENST:He's doing all right. Uh, he's coming intoan entirely different, you know.PRESIDENT:It's hard for him to learn. He's fine man.KLEINDIENST:Sure, he's a very fine man.PRESIDENT:Loyal,&#8211; KLEINDIENST:Sure. He's got&#8211;PRESIDENT:...(unintelligible)KLEINDIENST:He's a fine man. He's just got a littletraining course to go through, and, uh, he and I get along great.PRESIDENT:Finally, there's the other thing, is a type,the uh, this is, uh, this is very closely held because (unintelligible) deny any -Howard Baker dropped down. I had areception for a couple of Senators,Congressmen, and so forth (unintelligible). So Howard dropped down a little bit earlierand chatted with me. So, uh, uh, just, uh,greatest confidence about this thing, 'cause I naturally haven't talked to anybody about this thing. I wanted frankly, I didn't wantto know about any of our people. I didn'twant to know about, uh, whether they're interested in Mitchell, the criticalquestion...KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible)8.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Now, I have through Dean, I've gottenthe, I mean, what I think is . . .KLEINDIENST:Through who? PRESIDENT: Dean.KLEINDIENST: Dean.PRESIDENT:John Dean. KLEINDIENST:Oh, John Dean.PRESIDENT:John Dean who's in charge of the hearings.He's said, "on there isn't . . .KLEINDIENST:Very bright young fellow. PRESIDENT:Yeah. You have confidence in him, now,don't you? What I would like on that, if youwould, I would like for you to use him exclusively on Watergate. Now, I don't wantyou to talk to anybody else. I don't wantyou to talk to Ehrlichman, I don't want you to talk to Haldeman, I don't want you to talk to Colson, or anybody else, just Dean.Fair enough?KLEINDIENST:Sure. That's what I would -- PRESIDENT: Yeah. KLEINDIENST:I'd do it anyway.PRESIDENT:Now, Howard came down for the purpose oftelling me what are his plans for the hearings, briefly speaking.(Unintelligible) What he's planning to do,what he, what he's going to do is to, uh, that to, to try to, uh, make the hearings, make it appear the Republicans arecooperating, the hearings are honest and theAdministration's cooperating. So I assure you we're (uninitelligible) small ones.KLEINDIENST:That was the strategy we had, I think.PRESIDENT: Huh?9.KLEINDIENST:I think that's what are the strategiesPRESIDENT:If, I said, provided, I said, provided thisdidn't become, uh, uh, uh, a circus... (unintelligible) But, secondly I said histreatment -he would like he said to meetErvin,and I said I strongly would like to use -to have you -they want to talk to you.And I said fine. Uh, he said Ervin likesyou and that you have his confidence and that, uh, and of course Baker, of course wants you. I said fine. I said, as far asI'm concerned, uh, every thing's throughKleindienst. I suggested that Dean could be, uh, available for things too. He'sconcerned about that. He didn't say so, butI could sense it. So my view is&#8211;KLEINDIENST:Howard shouldn't have ever talked to JohnDean.PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah. My, my feeling is that I wantyou to be the man, but in being the man I want you to be basically our man on it all the way, that you would naturally be.KLEINDIENST:That's what I'm there for.PRESIDENT:I want to tell you, before I think of all,-another thing is that we get into othertactics. Howard said, well, uh, he feltthat the, that the, he sort of had the impression that no one really (unintelligible) except Stans. It's a badtrip. Stans. You know Maury. He is so,straightlaced and all that sort of thing, well, unsophisticated and naive, that if heever helped such a caper, he'd resign thatday. He had no knowledge whatever, uh, of a (unintelligible). And, uh, I know this is true. He's totally outraged about it now.Now -however, it is getting to the pointwhether that will come out. There was this, there were funds which were raised(unintelligible) raised a couple hundredthousand dollars cash, and that sort of thing and so forth, uh, which were used by the security group for their earliestactivities.10.KLEINDIENST: Yeah.PRESIDENT:Therefore, Maury, as the Finance Chairman, isostensibly, uh, uh, responsible for that because he started it. Now that brings us,however, to the fellow that I really think thegreatest possibility and that's, uh, isMitchell. Now on Mitchell, Mitchell has laidthe line, you know, uh, anyway something about -I forget. I've forgotten, so let me tell youwhat I understand. I remember in theHiss-case, uh, perjury, the hardest rap toprove. We convicted Hiss -(unintelligible)-line through the confrontation of(unintelligible). However, it took two yearsto convict him in the courts, and then we had go to (unintelligible) compre hend. Look.Now, John, I don't know this, but I can't, Ican't help but believe, assume that John musthave known about these ac tivities.KLEINDIENST:I think he must have found out about them.PRESIDENT:Yeah. And he must have had, had someone otherthan&#8211;KLEINDIENST:I think, if I recall,PRESIDENT:The point is, the point is that John hasdenied it categorically and so what I'mconcerned about is the perjury. But now, withthat in mind, I told -and I've, and, and,(unintelligible) -then I, then I told Bakerwhy. I said now, John, the way I felt, if Ididn't let him know that I thought John knewit, I said I, I (unintelligible). But I said John, you have a horrible domestic problem. Isaid Martha, you know, is very sick. And Johnwasn't paying any attention and these kids ranaway with it. Now that's the line I've takenand that's the one I want you to take. JohnMitchell is a pure, bright guy who would neverdone such a thing, that the kids ran away withit. And if John did lie,, it was simplybecause held forgotten. Now whether that will wash or not I don't know, but if that's, that-I just want you to know that I consider theMitchell problem the main (cough) don't wantJohn -I don't think John'll care if there's(unintelligible)11.PRESIDENT:He'll sort of grin and say that's okay, and(Continued)he'll survive. But I don't want John, Ican't, I can't have John run the possibility of a charge of perjury. You know (unintelligible). Period.KLEINDIENST:I couldn't have said it any better. Thatshould get him out of it.PRESIDENT: Yeah.KLEINDIENST:Because it's the same viewpoint&#8211; PRESIDENT:Yeah. All right. Now, to come to the WhiteHouse staff, I think you should know aboutit. Dean is conducting an investigation I,I figure -and, and Gray is con ducting an investigation and so forth. Uh, and I thinkputting Gray's name up, -one of the reasonsI didn't was, uh, (unintelligible) on that. We had a hell of an investigation here, too. They ask him about Watergate, he can saythat (unintelligible) he conducted a hell ofan investigation. The guys are guilty.KLEINDIENST:That's the positive side of the coin. PRESIDENT:That's what he's doing. NowKLEINDIENST:And he'll do it quite good.PRESIDENT:Now the other thing is, uh, you come toWhite House staff. Ehrlichman didn't know aGod damned thing, that's for sure. He had-you know what I mean, he was working in other fields, however that -see Hunt worked with him on drugs, on, on, the, uhKLEINDIENST:... the Pentagon Papers. I think that was withrespect to (unintelligible).PRESIDENT: What?KLEINDIENST:I said there could . . .PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). No, no question. He'llhave to be called. Now, uh, Colson is the12.PRESIDENT:other possibility. Colson's close friend(Continued)ship. See they served in the Marine Corpstogether. With Hunt the fact that Colson has worked with Hunt on the ITT, which hedid, uh, would lead certainly stronginnuendo that Colson was in this. Colson totally denies it. He may give a line. Hecan take their position.KLEINDIENST: Yeah. PRESIDENT:But I don't know. Now, the other isHaldeman. The problem with Haldeman's casefrankly is Magruder. Magruder did work forHaldeman. Magruder was over there. Magruder -DIck?KLEINDIENST:Magruder's has the same problem Mitchell hasto (unintelligible)&#8211;PRESIDENT:I got, uh, -don't you think. KLEINDIENST: Huh?PRESIDENT: Yeah.KLEINDIENST:I don't know. PRESIDENT:Well, I&#8211; KLEINDIENST:It's possible that he and Mitchell bothmight have known.PRESIDENT:I think we -well, that's what people assume.Now with Magruder, you've got the problemthat if you go to him, he's not a verystrong personality, and Magruder,-I don't know.KLEINDIENST:I think he --PRESIDENT:Magruder will probeprobably be turning onMitchell rather than Haldeman, that's my guess. He's Haldeman's hand.KLEINDIENST:I don'tlhink he'll turn on anybody.PRESIDENT:You don't? KLEINDIENST:No, I think he's got (unintelligible).13.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) -huh?KLEINDIENST:I really do. PRESIDENT:Now we come down to this. KLEINDIENST:(Unintelligible) jeopardize, if he does.PRESIDENT:I don't know. I hope so. I mean look,let's face it. You take a guy like Jeb and Chapin. All these guys for Christ sakes, Imean you and I know that this is a verysilly operation, and so forth and so on. See? But it's a campaign and that and also -you are aware of the fact that, you areaware of the fact that, uh, you know the,that, uh, Hoover told Mitchell separately and me separately that the FBI bugged ourplane in 1968 for the last three weeks.KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:We were investigating -it was a fact, youknow what I mean and, uh, that fellow whoworks for Coca Cola -Pepsi Cola now, sortabacks off a little. He says we only bugged telephones.KLEINDIENST:Pretty bad too, wasn&#8482;t it ? (Unintelligible)alone.PRESIDENT:Huh? Was my wife? But the FBI(unintelligible) bugging the, the candidatesis (unintelligible), but not that Committeeand the FBI and the Government doing it. What the Christ do you think of that? Ervin said no they're certain (unintelligible).He won't -of course. That's that the reasonthat they fought not to have it extended to other campaigns. But now -let's come back,. . .KLEINDIENST:Well, Mr. President, let me comment on thatright1here. I don't know tactPRESIDENT:I don't want to smear Johnson.KLEINDIENST:I don't know tactically right now, in my ownmind, whether (unintelligible; background noises) is to have that now. It might bethe thing,the thing that'll save us.14.PRESIDENT:I don't want to hurt Johnson. I don't wantto get into smearing a dead man.KLEINDIENST:Well&#8211; PRESIDENT:And it looks like, you see, say, they.-re(unintelligible) did that to me, and that'swhy we did it, because they bugged US. What do you&#8211;KLEINDIENST:No, uh, I and I've thought a great dealabout this before I had (unintelligible with background noise), uh, it all depends on the course that this investigation takes. If itturns itself into a wild charge,PRESIDENT:Charge. Right. KLEINDIENST:...then maybe you want to consider that,that Ervin could be made aware of this fact.It might be a, a restraining -it'd be influence, you know, because, uh, if, if they could be made aware of the fact that(unintelligible)&#8211;PRESIDENT: Yeah. KLEINDIENST:...campaign, you know. PRESIDENT: Yeah.KLEINDIENST:...beginning of the next campaign.PRESIDENT:That's right. KLEINDIENST:Then we're gonna really turn it intosomething. You know, they may, might notwant to do that because of what Johnson did, what the FBI did, goes so far beyond this implication (unintelligible) the Watergatething. Just don't compare. In fact, thatreally is what we&#8211;PRESIDENT:But we got -this didn't accomplish anythingfor us. Our (unintelligible)&#8211;KLEINDIENST:The thing is that everything is so stupid.Ludicrous. Segretti, Watergate and everything.15.PRESIDENT:What the Christ worked?KLEINDIENST: Yeah. PRESIDENT:Theirs worked. Shit, they busted up thewindows of the headquarters in Phoenix andburned the God damned thing. They, uh, theydestroyed -did $25,000 worth of property in San Francisco.KLEINDIENST: Right.PRESIDENT:Uh, they ran a riot in Los Angeles right outof McGovern headquarters.KLEINDIENST: Right.PRESIDENT:Now, when Ervin, when Ervin and(unintelligible) all come down and see you, the key point is executive privilege. Nowhere, I've got to ask you to, to take a veryhard line. Now here's what I -here's Baker's point. Baker's point and Ervin's line -see Ervin is hung up on executiveprivilege. He isn't hung up just for this.He wants to (unintelligible with background noise) totally. He wants Kissinger everybody else, because -he's wrong, he'swrong about this. He's uh, he's wrong aboutthis. You know, executive privilege can be broken down to it's (unin telligible). Now,so I, what his point is, uh, what -he's gota good one in one sense, his view is, that after their, when they start the hear (unintelligible), bring out all the big guysright away. Get it over with.KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) as long as they're on.andpeople'll be tired of it. I think that'srather smart. In other words, rather than having them build up. Drip, drip, drip*., drip.KLEINDIENST: (Cough)PRESIDENT:Call Haldeman, call Mitchell, call the rest.Good strategy, don't you think?16.PRESIDENT:You talk about strategy, that's Hiss.KLEINDIENST:Howard and I are good friends and V11 have nodifficulty (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Now, but the strategy is his problem andyours. The second point, however, is thatErvin and he will want to talk to you aboutyour, your cooperation. Now, one is FBIfiles. Now I, uh, -and I want you to tell Ervin this, uh, that, uh, you, you examinedthe record of this and you found that the onlyother hearing that was really like this wasthe Hiss case. Just like this. That at thattime, the then Congressmen Nixon(unintelligible).I had a couple friends here-that Truman categorically refused to allowthe FBI to cooperate with the Committee. Theygave us absolutely not a God damn thing. Infact, they thought that (unintelligible).Okay.KLEINDIENST:In 1948?PRESIDENT: Sure.KLEINDIENST:Is that a fact?PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) because, uh, there they weretrying to protect themselves politically. Just bugging -the point is the FBI did notcooperate with the Committee. Now what Ervinor Baker are going to ask for this is,they'regoing to ask for the raw data, to, to, to begiven to him and the two counsel and so forth.Uh, you've got to deter mine that. My ownview is that it probably goes too far. But, uh, I don't know whether you give them FBI andallow them to investigate.KLEINDIENST:Well, here's what I had suggested. Uh, we hadconversations about it, you know, with thestrategy, uh, that we'd do. Number one, Icould, not on the grounds of any executiveprivilege, but just policy, say I'm not goingto turn over, you know, FBI files to anybody.It's our policy. We don't do that. But anyway, that, I think will probably get to thebottom of it, but I think it might do moreharm than good because of the politicalsituation.17.PRESIDENT:So what would you do?KLEINDIENST:My recommendation would be this, severalpeople have been thinking about this with me and I think are inclined to agree, that wewill give them a summary of the informationof witnesses in the FBI files and we'll summarize.PRESIDENT:I wonder, Dick, on that, let's, why don'tyou, you, so that I (unintelligible) and that sort of thing. Why don't you talk to, uh, to, you tell Dean, the purpose.KLEINDIENST:I've discussed this with him and he agreeswith me.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) all right.KLEINDIENST:Let me add a footnote on that&#8211;PRESIDENT: Yeah. KLEINDIENST:...Mr. President. Uh, I would say to them,"Okay, we're, we're not gonna let you seethese raw files, just to protect innocentpeople, etc. We'll summarize them for you. In the event, the full Committee feels that our summaries have been inaccurate, we willdevise a procedure that an officer of theFBI present where the minority and majority counsel can come down and look at &#8218;em, ataction&#8211;PRESIDENT: Yeah. KLEINDIENST:...investigative report just to satisfythemselves that we were&#8211;PRESIDENT:Argue that, that the more important point-the FBI files and concerning raw data as so forth and cause you (unintelligible) everread an FBI file (unintelligible). Now, theother point though is more firm. Now, the executive privilege -what I want to avoid, Dick, is not their testifying,(unintelligible), but what I want to avoidis hauling the Haldemans and the Ehrlichmans, for example, up there,television lights and so forth and beinggrilled by a Senate Committee, the18.PRESIDENT:President's two top assistants. That(Continued)I don't want. Now, how do you, how do you getaround it. Baker's position is, is he andErvin will develop a very narrow line ofinquiry and limit it to that. That isn't theproblem. It isn't the narrow line of inquiry.It isn't the questions, how they would answer.It's putting it on television, putting it on their circus which is what they want. Thedamage is done by that, the damage is not doneby what they say. I'm not concerned aboutwhat they will testify to; and I'm notconcerned about the question, and I'm notconcerned about it being under oath. I amconcerned about them being called up there, because then it'll mean they'll haul Kissingerup and say what now did the President reallydo when he decided to mine, bomb Hanoi. NowGod damn it, we're just not going to havethat. That's my point. Now, the other thingwhich I've already approached, would be tohave written interrogatories. Writteninterrogatories they won't buy. Now, there'sa middle ground -oh, that's what should be your starting position. (unintelligible)people. The other ground, which I think couldbe a very good compromise, satisfac tory tome, would be that (cough) for any body in, an,to.an executive pri-privilege sign, thatrather than appearing before the Committee,that they will agree to, and then the, uh, the senior member, Ervin on the Democratic side,Baker on the Republican side, and the twocounsel can interrogate them under oath, likea deposition and cover all ques tions, butthat it be on that basis.KLEINDIENST:In a non-public, uh,PRESIDENT:A non-public forum.KLEINDIENST:...executive --PRESIDENT:That's right. KLEINDIENST:How 'bout, another&#8211;PRESIDENT:And it would be down here.19.KLEINDIENST:How 'bout another fallback position. Ithink that would be a good proposal, but how 'bout as a final fallback position in that you produce Haldeman and Ehrlichman in theSenate. It would be in an executivesession, a closed session of the full Committee.PRESIDENT:That's bullshit.KLEINDIENST:It would, I think, produce the same results,and the same information.PRESIDENT:Except they hall 'em up there. You see, Isuppose, going up to the Capitol and comingout, Committee members coming out and saying, and so forth. Well, it's better,it's, it's, it's, it's&#8211;KLEINDIENST:It'd be better to take, it's be better if wecan buy them.PRESIDENT: Huh?KLEINDIENST:If you could get by that.PRESIDENT:But, let me say, I think to start with theinter-thing, with written interrogatories, you know, in which they will -and then, myview, Dick, very strongly is that I think,is that the best thing to do is, is from our standpoint, thinking of Kissinger in thefuture in particular -he's the one I'mreally most concerned about here -the best thing, really, would be the business of the minoiity and the majority counsel -now whatthe hell, that really covers it. What thehell is, is the content -well, other member of the Committee won't get to harangue them.(Pause)KLEINDIENST:well, it also provides for them the basicinformation they're seeking.PRESIDENT:But they want information, then the questionis do they want information or publicity?KLEINDIENST: Yeah. PRESIDENT:That's the point. If they want information,they'll take -they can do it.20.KLEINDIENST:I think they want both of them.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Oh sure. KLEINDIENST:Well, you know Sam Ervin's got quite aposturePRESIDENT: Yeah.KLEINDIENST:...traditionally in the Government as beingvery&#8211;jealousPRESIDENT:...(unintelligible)KLEINDIENST:...individual rights, you know. PRESIDENT:Oh yes, yeah. KLEINDIENST:Actually, we couldn't get a better fellow.He's very righteouslyPRESIDENT: Yeah. KLEINDIENST:indignant man, but he's also a very goodman.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah. KLEINDIENST:He's not a bad man. PRESIDENT:Yeah. We could say this that we, thePresident said this has never been done, butI wanted you to point out that the Hiss case thing, the President went through this, and they refused, and I broke the God damn caseby, and, doing it with my own investigators.The FBI did not cooperate, the Justice Department tried to drop the case, and thisand that even, and, and I and therefore, Iwant cooperation. You could point this out. You can say this, that that that, -uh, that I've often talked to you about this inanother vein. You could say, when planningthe thing came up, you could say I had a talk about this (unintelligible) and whenyou say when we talked about the planning atthat time and that's the President's view. We want to cooperate as best we can, but, I do not want, I cannot, I cannot break downexecutive privilege to21.PRESIDENT:that point. I'm not, let me make this,(Continued)I'm not gonna make this kind of a thing. Iwant you, I want you to be very hard lined on that.KLEINDIENST:Who, uh, who can you think of now that hasyour recollection and knowledge of what happened in the Hiss case, so that I couldtalk to him, just so I don't have to troubleyou about it? Who was was involved in it with you?PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). All the Committee membersarent's, uh, -KLEINDIENST:To the extent that it's convenient for you,I want you to think about that, maybe youcan think of some person who might still bealive.PRESIDENT:Well, (unintelligible) to say(unintelligible) but, uh, I hit Howard Bakeron it. I said the reason, I said theUn-American Activities Committee was, uh, basically a cataclysmic failure, had a bad reputation except on that case which Ipersonally handled, and the reason that caseeven got grudging respect from those who were totally on Hiss' side was its conductand, and I went after this, I said Iconducted it like a court, I said there was no hearsay, there was no, uh, innuendo, uh, there was no guilt by association, and Isaid there was no hearsay present. But thepoint is I want you to hammer that hard to Ervin, the impress--, this, this, this,there should be no hearsay except this damnJudge has allowed hearsay and everything else down here in this other case. Hearsay, innuendo, etcetera, etcetera, don't youthink so?KLEINDIENST:Yes, I do. Can't keep it, uh, profession(unintelligible). Ninety days I spentaroung last year when I was in the hospital.PRESIDENT: Right. KLEINDIENST:Those --22.PRESIDENT:Read The Six, read the first chapter of SixCrises. That tells the story of the Hisscase.KLEINDIENST:Does it?PRESIDENT:Yeah. Do you have the book?KLEINDIENST:Yes, sir, I do and I haven't read it for along time, but . . .PRESIDENT:Read the first chapter of Six Crises. Ittells the story of what we're trying to do.And, and that'll give you a good feeling. It doesn't say that the FBI, well, prettywell implied, -the FBI utterly refused.Hoover was on my side, but he utterly refused to get it. I'll tell you what I diddo. I'm sure you know, Dick, that somewherein the FBI, there was a priest, by the name of Father Cullen around then who knew one of Catholic FBI agents and he really stuck upfor the FBI, too. That's all(unintelligible) about it. Nothing else.KLEINDIENST:Why do you think Hoover permitted himself tobe used by Johnson in the &#8218;68 campaign?PRESIDENT:Deke DeLoach did it. He was ordered to.KLEINDIENST:Hoover didn't know about it? PRESIDENT or KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible)KLEINDIENST:Somehow, I thought he knew about it.PRESIDENT:Supposed to. No he didn't know. Well,Deke, Deke DeLoach put it on, uh, Johnson put it on the basis that they were investthey were negotiating the Vietnam peace.South Vietnamese Ambassador was very emphatic that the Dragon Lady was very closeto, to President Nixon, or somebody or Agnewor somebody, uh, under the circumstances that he had to find what she was saying to them. You know, he was a para-paranoid, hethought everyone.KLEINDIENST:I know.23.PRESIDENT:And Bobby Kennedy bugged him.KLEINDIENST:I know. PRESIDENT:So what the hell. I, I take a little ofthis on, you know, ought to; I think thisone side that, that supposed to have (unintelligible). I want you to be sure, when you go back to your office today, JimmyHoffa announced he was going to run for the,uh, Detroit Local. I want you to call Hoffals lawyer, or somebody to call his lawyer and tell him that if he does thatthat I will, that you're gonna revoke hisparole, and also I want you to make a public statement to that effect, (unintelligible).KLEINDIENST:I want to, when I (unintelligible) talkingabout that, you know, just (unintelligible) policy was...PRESIDENT:Ah, his parole is to be revoked. It was onthe basis he did not engage in anyactivities and I'd like for you to get a strong public statement.KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Do you think -Will you do that?KLEINDIENST:Yeah. Just take him to the-(Unintelligible) to the Attorney Generalwithout any reference to you.PRESIDENT:That's right. KLEINDIENST:If he does it, PRESIDENT:That's right.KLEINDIENST:...(unintelligible)PRESIDENT:You should let, you should let him know thathe must revoke that and not, then his parolewill be revoked. And he's going to go backto jail. God damn it and I'm not going to allow that.24.KLEINDIENST:it would be a good line.PRESIDENT:If you, if you would get that out today, I'dappreciate it. tall Ziegler and (unintelligible) question.KLEINDIENST:I think that, uh, let me ask you this.Suppose I talk to Hoffals lawyer and tell him what I'm going to do and then he callsme back and says, okay, Hoffa isn't going todo it. I don't know whether I ought to make it public.PRESIDENT:Oh no. You say all right, he's to say thatpublicly or his lawyer has got to publiclyget off of this.KLEINDIENST:And if he does then Hoffa will publiclystate that -PRESIDENT:Get off of this, yeah, ah, that's all.We're not going to revoke his parole if he doesn't move in it.KLEINDIENST:Right, but...PRESIDENT:Hoffa must publicly get out of this damnthing.KLEINDIENST:But supposePRESIDENT and KLEINDIENST talking at same time.KLEINDIENST:Hoffa then says I'm not going to run, Idon't think then it would help anything ifwe just say if he does, I'm going to put himback in jail.PRESIDENT:No, not at all. Not at all. But he mustpublicly say it or you make a publicstatement.KLEINDIENST: Yeah. PRESIDENT:If he tells you that, then you make astatement to the effect that you have calledthe lawyer, and you have been assured that he is not going to run.25.KLEINDIENST: Right.PRESIDENT:Then you go on to say that, of course, thatwould be a violation of parole. Period. ButI want to take a very hard line on it.(Unintelligible) with, with the politics inthat union, and also that we are not going toget the impression around that we're soft onHoffa, because weire not. (Unintelligible) sonof-a-bitch, uh, (unintelligible).KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Coming back to this thing. Uh, writteninterrogatories (unintelligible). They'regoing up there under any circumstances. Ireally think so. I really think the positionshould be one they examine them and that and then Ervin made a, made a major breakthroughon this. We'll allow this communication inthe future, that sort of thing. Under groundrules that are laid down, but we will not, butthat I will not (unintelligible) in publichearings. Public hearings, with, uh, with allthe, uh, that sort of (unintelligible) -wewill cooperate with the Congress, but undercircumstances of, uh, there has to be (unintelligible). Both sides, we we state, inan intrasigent position, we're going to have aconstitutional scream-out. On the other hand,as far as the public hearings are concerned,that's something that can't go on.(Unintelligible)KLEINDIENST:I don't know. (Unintelligible) possibly be in(unintelligible). I don't whether we got anawfully hardleaded line here.PRESIDENT:Don't go to the executive, don't go to theexecutive session. You know, at this point,under any circumstances. Don't even suggestthat. There's back-up position's, the back-upposition is the you know, th-th-th...KLEINDIENST:No, I, I don't care any more about that. Iwouldn't want us to get that back-up position. That would be the last bargaining position wehave (unintelligible with background noise)final blow, face26.KLEINDIENST:saving, bargaining position (unintelligible)(Continued)executive. PRESIDENT:But that is the final. I'm not going toallow any televised hearing. Do you agreewith that?KLEINDIENST:(Pause)I think I do. Yeah, I do. PRESIDENT and KLEINDIENST talking at same time.PRESIDENT:That's my view. Just go just so far andwe'll fight the Congress on it, go to hell with it. There are other, there are worse things than that. We say we've offeredthis. We, we've made statements and when weput that record out it's gonna look a bit, then he's going to be looking awfully damnedunreasonable, too.KLEINDIENST:That's why&#8211; PRESIDENT:They never did that. You should point outthat they didn't do that in the Hiss case.KLEINDIENST:You know&#8211;PRESIDENT:You study the records in the Hiss case inthe Department of Justice, why don't you just give that a look? I think and I knowexactly what I'm talking about. I, I did.They didn't. They refused, refused to let anybody come up.KLEINDIENST:But you covered this. I, I don't recollect,of course, I read that book several years ago, at least sections of it. But you covered it pretty carefully in that book.PRESIDENT: (Unintelligible)KLEINDIENST:I think the public posture that we oughtahave right now Itil we wait and see whathappens, you know, (a) we have nothing tohide, (b) we're going to cooperate with them and (c) let's get the damn thing done so that we can go back and do something else.27.PRESIDENT:That's right. That's right. That's right.KLEINDIENST:Uh... PRESIDENT:Don't make this a political circus andharassment and partisan and the rest. Buton the other hand, I want you to hit Baker alittle harder on this. Say, "Now, Howard, don't be so damned, uh, timid with regard towhat they have done. They've done a hell ofa lot of things. If for example, they expand this hearing into this crappy Segretti business, -I'll let you know whenI'm ready.UNIDENTIFIED:Fine, sir. PRESIDENT:Uh, if they have the, the, uh, the Segrettibusiness, all right, fine, then we're gonnado all their activities of that sort. I think that's gotta be made very clear. I think this hearing should be, frankly, onWater gate. That's very much more -the restis just shit. It's not, you know what I mean. But if they do go, Howard has gotta open the other side up, don't you agree?KLEINDIENST:Yeah, I think also, uh, a final judgment hasto be made soon with respect to this 1968 stuff by Johnson.PRESIDENT: Yeah.KLEINDIENST:Knowing that Deke DeLoach was involved init. He's working for Pepsico, Don Kendall's a veryPRESIDENT: Yeah.KLEINDIENST:...close friend PRESIDENT: Yeah.KLEINDIENST:...of yours and supporter, etcetera,etcetera, etcetera.PRESIDENT: Yeah.28.KLEINDIENST:'Cause once we get into that, what you'rereally getting into is criminal conduct, you know. That could lend himself to a criminal prosecution.PRESIDENT:What DeLoach? Yeah.KLEINDIENST:God damn (unintelligible) have done that. PRESIDENT:That's why DeLoach has gone back on it.KLEINDIENST: Yeah.PRESIDENT:I told Gray, I directed him, he was here, Isaid, now you're to call him-irnmediately for a (unintelligible), give him a liedetector test on this. Not because of whatI said. The Star had the story, see? The Washington Star and they, they went toJohnson and Johnson was, it was, uh, about two, three months ago, just went up his wall and so forth an d so on.KLEINDIENST:The Star had this?PRESIDENT:And we killed it. A reporter at the Star.We killed the story from here.KLEINDIENST:Is that right? PRESIDENT:Sure. I don't know how it leaked. Somebodygot it. We didn't know about then.KLEINDIENST and PRESIDENT: (Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:No, it had never been printed. Johnson wasjust beside himself about that.(Unintelligible) let it out. (Unintelligible) I called Haldeman.KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Listen, more than meets the eye here.(Unintell.) Bobby and all the rest.KLEINDIENST:But it's also I think, a different situationnow that Johnson is dead.29.PRESIDENT:Yeah.KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:Oh, Christ. You mean(unintelligible)? KLEINDIENST:Yeah. Seems to me that we, in considerationof.the Office of the Presidency...PRESIDENT: Yeah. KLEINDIENST:...is a little bit different in terms ofthis, this...PRESIDENT:You mean, you should do, do more for thesedead men? Maybe. Well, I'm a dead man. OK.KLEINDIENST:Now, as far as (unintelligible),PRESIDENT: Yeah.KLEINDIENST:...(Unintelligible) and some of those people(unintelligible) there's a possibility theymight not want to, so wrapped up in all ofthis.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Let me ask you to do, uh, ask youthen to be (unintelligible)-you'll, you'llstay on as long as we want you to... .KLEINDIENST:Yes, sir. PRESIDENT:...here. Second, you'll, uh, you'll do theHoffa thing for us. Right away, today.That call needs to be made as soon as youget back to the office.KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Third, you'll talk to Baker as to(unintelligible) and he will talk to Dean. And I'll tell Dean that he&#8482;s to talk to you. He's your contact. Nobody else. I don'twant you to talk to anybody else over herebut Dean. Nobody. Fourth, I think sometime you've got to talk to Mitchell.30.KLEINDIENST:I've got to talk to Mitchell? You mean,about the Watergate business?PRESIDENT:Well either than or you talk to Baker, andBaker's gotta talk to him but,KLEINDIENST: Yeah.PRESIDENT:...but-- KLEINDIENST:I don't think I'd want to talk to him.PRESIDENT:All right.KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:All right, fine. (Unintelligible)... KLEINDIENST:I don't want to be on the...PRESIDENT:...Baker. God damn it, remember, your majorproblem is Baker and your other major problem is to protect, in my view, is toprotect the, which is, is not we're notgonna protect any wrongdoing. Anybody wrong here and I'm gonna kick their ass outta here. As far as the White House staff, I amnot concerned, unless they're alldouble-faced liars, about any of them being involved. On the other hand, I am concerned about the circus. Three of the President'schief assistants up there like criminals.That's what I'm not going to allow and that's just, that's final. OK?KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Call -you will -I agree. Call my friend,uh, call, call Ziegler. Give him some, you say something on this so that he's postedfor the (unintelligible) thing. Fine.KLEINDIENST:I'll call back over here. PRESIDENT:Yeah, their stuff. I mean just so that hemay not be asked about it, but you knowthere's a press conferences in the afternoon. But I want you to be the guy --31.KLEINDIENST:Do you believe Hoffa intends to make astatement like that?PRESIDENT:He's already made a statement. KLEINDIENST:Oh, he has?PRESIDENT:Already has. He indicated, already issued astatement that he's going to, uh, somebody has issued a statement in his behalf, thathe's going to run for the President of theDetroit Local. That is a violation of that parole. He should be called. We've heard about it and want to know what the score is.He's either gonna have to give an assurancehe's not going to run, which you then publicly will say or&#8211;KLEINDIENST:He might want to be testing theconstitutionality of that limitation in court.PRESIDENT:All right, fine, fine.KLEINDIENST: (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:All right fine. Then we'll withdraw goinginto the thing. Fair enough?KLEINDIENST:Yes, sir. Fine.PRESIDENT:Good, good. Well, you know one thing, Dick,we sure got our, our peacenik friends a little calmed down.KLEINDIENST: Yeah.PRESIDENT:And haven't those POW's been great. KLEINDIENST:Yes, they have. PRESIDENT:It's shakin' the country.KLEINDIENST:It's shakin' the country.PRESIDENT: Yeah. KLEINDIENST:It really is.32.PRESIDENT:People're proud again.KLEINDIENST: Yeah. PRESIDENT:Yeah, they're proud, they're carrin' theirheads high.KLEINDIENST:You just can'tPRESIDENT: Yeah. KLEINDIENST:&#8211;,know that people told me (unintelligible)when those fellas came back.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Good luck. Thank you. KLEINDIENST:Thank you, sir. PRESIDENT:You're welcome.PRESIDENT:You're not a significant drawback,(unintelligible).KLEINDIENST: (Laughs)