TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING BETWEEN THEPRESIDENT AND JOHN DEAN ON FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO10:23 A.M.TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING BETWEEN THEPRESIDENT AND JOHN DEAN ON FEBRUARY 28, 1973, FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.DEAN:Good morning, sir.PRESIDENT:Oh, hi. DEAN:How are you?PRESIDENT:Oh, I wanted to, uh, to speak with youabout, uh, what, uh, kind of a line to test. Now, I want Kleindienst--this is not a question of trust. You haveDEAN:(Clears throat)PRESIDENT:...you have it clearly understood that youwill call him and give him directions andthat he will call you, and so forth, and soon. I just don't want Dick to go...DEAN:No. I think- PRESIDENT:...go off--you see, for example, onexecutive privilege--I don't want him to gooff and get the damn thing, uh, uh--get us--DEAN:Make any deals on this thing-- PRESIDENT:Well, to make a deal--that's the point.DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:That Baker, uh, as I said, was, uh, he was(unintelligible) you know, this and that andthe other thing, and, and you've got to bevery firm with these guys or you may not end up with anything. Now, as I said, the only back-up position I can possibly see is oneof a, uh, is Kleindienst wants to back or(unintelligible) didn't want to but suggested we ought to back them heavily,send them up there in, in executive session.Well, now you haul them up there in executive session we still got the problem of a, uh, of, uh, well, I feel that thetape-I, I'm thinking of that because it'llgo to him without any question&#8211;FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.2DEAN:Sure.PRESIDENT:...at that point, and that's going to be farmore significant. This crap bothers us atthe moment, but that's far more significant. And they'll haul him up there and bully-raghim around the damn place and it'll raiseholy hell within our or his relations with Rogers and all the other people.(Secretary enters)PRESIDENT:Yeah. Oh, uh, oh, I've sent some notes out,uhI guess there's, uh, a couple of yellow pagessomething that I was, uh, from that,file on the teachers' thing that I'm notdoing today.SECRETARY:Yes, sir. PRESIDENT:Get the yellow pages (unintelligible).Might save money for the government.SECRETARY:All right, sir. PRESIDENT:Just send it back to me please. (Secretary leaves)PRESIDENT:So you see, uh, I think you better have agood, hard face-to-face talk with him and say, "Look, we've thought this thing over,"and, and., uh, you raise the point with him:it cannot be executive session because, you know, he's likely to float it out there and they'll grab him.DEAN:That's right, and As I mentioned yesterday,he is meeting with Sam Ervin and Baker in this, joint session and that probably is oneof the first things that, uh...PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...that Ervin- PRESIDENT:That's the only thing they'll be there todiscuss.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.3DEAN:It'll be--PRESIDENT:The main thingDEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:...they'll be there to discuss--notonly--the only--but the main thing Ervin isgoing to be. "Now what about executiveprivilege?'' Now, he hasn't had that meeting set yet, though, has he?DEAN:No, it's not. So there's ample time to haveDick go up, uhPRESIDENT:Well, you, uh, you, have a talk with him andsay we talked about this and this is wherewe stand and this is where he is. Now yourposition, I mean, uh, of course, I know our Position is written interrogatories, which they will never, they'd probably accept, butit may give us a position, I mean it'd bereasonable in the public mind.DEAN:Correct. PRESIDENT:That's what you have in mind.DEAN:Correct.PRESIDENT:Now, the other possibility is, uh, is theone that, uh, Ehr--, Ehrlichman, I thinksuggested it. You could have, uh, uh, agreethat uh, the ranking, uh, the Chairman and the ranking member could, uh, question under basically the same--under veryrestricted-uh, a little bit early(unintelligible) for that.DEAN:You mean, coming down here, say?PRESIDENT:Ba-, basicallyDEAN:That's a-- PRESIDENT:...that is the thinking.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.4DEAN:I thinks I think that's a, uh, a sort of"if" we couldn't get inter--, writteninterrogatories. That's still a, a, a,serious precedent to deal with, though, if they come down here and, uh, uhPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...start questioning people. I think theissues would have to be so narrowed for even that situation.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:And that's what'll evolve with the PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:&#8211;narrowing of the issues to where whatinformation, say, a, a Haldeman might haveor an Ehrlichman might have...PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...that the Committee needs to be completeinits report or it's investigation.PRESIDENT:Yeah. We will say that you will then, youwill (unintelligible) to writteninterrogatories under oath, that an-, answerquestions.DEAN:That's--publicly, you, you're notwithholding any information and you're notusing the shield of the Presidency.PRESIDENT:So, as I say, (clears throat) when you talkto Kleindienst--because I have raised thisin previous things with him on the Hisscase-.he got, he'd forgotten, and I said, "Well go back and read the first chapter ofSix Crises. Tells all about it.&#64258; But Iknow very--as I said, I mean, that was espionage against the nation, not against the party. FBI, Hoover, himself, who was afriend of mine...FEBRUARY 21, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.5DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:...even then, said "I'm sorry. 'I have beenordered not to cooperate.&#64258; And they didn'tgive us one God damned thing. I conducted that investigation with two stupid littlecommittee investigators--they weren't thatstupid--they were tenacious. One had been fired by the FBI; he was a good, decent fellow, but he was a drunk.DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:And, uh, we got it done. But we broke thatthingDEAN:Against a wall&#352;PRESIDENT:...without any help. The FBI then got theevidence which eventually--See, we got Piper, who--We got the, the, the, oh, thePumpkin Papers, for instance. We, we gotall of that ourselves.DEAN:Well, you know, I-- PRESIDENT:The FBI did not cooperate. The JusticeDepartment did not cooperate. TheAdministration would not answer questions except, of course, for Cabinet officers, Imean, like, uh, Burling came down and someOf the others (unintelligible)DEAN:Funny, when the shoe is on the other foot,how they look at things, isn't it?PRESIDENT:They did--Well, and, as I said, the New YorkTimes, the Washington Post and all the rest, said the Administration has an absoluteright--They then...DEAN:(Clear's throat) PRESIDENT:... Put it, they put it in terms ofexecutive privilege. They were just againstthe investigation. So the real questionthere isFEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.6PRESIDENT:that now, now you could say that I,(CONTINUED)having been through that--we have talked itover, and that I feel that, uh, I think that was--I have always felt very miffed about that, felt that was wrong, it was espionage against the nation. Now this is another matter. But Ithink that we ought to cooperate, and I'm tryingto find an area of cooperation. Here it is: written interrogatories.. All right. You see, the er--, the, the Baker theory is that he wants to have a big slambang thing for a week and then he thinks interest in the whole thing'll falloff. And he's right about that. And heeven--But his point of having the big slambang thing for a week is to bring all the big shots up right away. But the big shots you could bring up--you, you could bring up Stans. They've got to put him on, and they've got to put Mitchell on. But held like to get, ofcourse, Haldeman, Ehrlichman, and Colson.DEAN:I understand that, uh, Bob and you have talkedabout running Stans out as sort of a stalking horse on an--, on another post.PRESIDENT:Well, it's not my idea. It's, uh, I guess Mooreor somebody mentioned it.DEAN:I, I think it was my ideaPRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) DEAN:...as a matter of fact, and I think it coulddefuse, could be one defusing factor in the hearings. Uh, Stans would like to get his side of the story out. He is not in any seriousproblem ultimately. It could be rough andtumble, but Maury is ready to take it and, uh, it would be a mini-hearing, no doubt about it. But this further detracts from, uh, the other Committee.PRESIDENT:It would be a mini-hearing, it's true. Exceptknowing the press--I'm trying to think out louda minute--knowing that they, uh, youFEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.7PRESIDENT:know, they have, like they have taken(clears(CONTINUED) throat)--they sold several of these storieson Colson and Haldeman about four times.DEAN:Oh, I know that. PRESIDENT:Now, that they can--I just wonder if, ifthat doesn't do that? I don't know (clearsthroat). Take Stans, they'll get him up by seat; somebody's after him about the Vesco contri--(clears throat)--bution. As I readthe, first read the story briefly in the(Dean clears throat) Post. And, I read, naturally, the first page and I turned tothe Times, read it. The Times had in thesecond paragraph that the money had been refer--, returned.DEAN:That is correct.PRESIDENT:The Post didn't have it until after youcontinued to the next, to the next section.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:The God damnedest thing I ever saw.DEAN:Typical.PRESIDENT:(Coughs) My guess is that as far as thattransaction's concerned., that it was after,that he got the money after the tenth, but Idon't think they pointed out that Sears got it before.DEAN:Well, it was con--it was con...PRESIDENT:(Coughs)DEAN:&#8211;well, for all purposes, the, the; uh, thedonor..PRESIDENT:Because I'm sure...-DEAN:Vesco--FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.8PRESIDENT:I'm sure that Stans would never do a thinglike that.DEAN:Now, uh--PRESIDENT:Never. Never. Never. DEAN:Uh, I think we have a good strong case thatthe donor had relinquished control over themoney, and constructive possession of the money was in the hands of thePRESIDENT:Harry Sears.DEAN:...finance committee, and Sears and, uh, andthe like. So that there is no, uh--PRESIDENT:How did they get my brother in it? Eddie?DEAN:I'll tell you; you talk of the, thatwas-that was sheer sandbagging of, of your brother. Here is what they did. They called him down here in Washington.PRESIDENT:Who did?DEAN:Uh, it's, uh, let's see PRESIDENT:Sears? DEAN:-it was Vesco; it was Vesco and Sears, andsaid that, "We want to talk to you about thenature of this transaction because we've had some earlier conversations withPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...uh, Stans. He really wasn't privy to it PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...and didn't know much about it; said,"Sure, I'll come up.&#64258; And what the, thelong and short of it was, they were asking him to find out from Stans whether theywanted cash or check. Stans just respondedFEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.9DEAN:to your brother and said, uh, "I don't(CONTINUED)really care--whatever they want to do,'' andthat's what he relayed back and it's, uh--Hewasn't, he, he didn't even understand why he was there.PRESIDENT:Sure. (Unintelligible)DEAN:So, uh, and he's clean as a whistle.There's just noPRESIDENT:Oh, I know that. I know that.DEAN:...just no problem at all.PRESIDENT:He doesn't know anything about the moneyside. So you'd sort of lean to having Stansgo stalking out there.DEAN:I think it'd have--I think it would take alot of the teeth out of the--you know-the stardom of the people they'll try to buildup to. If Stans had already gone through ahearing in another committee, obviously they'll use everything they have at that time and it won't be a hell of a lot. Uh, itconfuses the Public. The public is boredwith this thing already.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:One of the s--, one of the things I think wedid succeed in before the election--PRESIDENT:Stans is very clean. What I mean is, let'sface it, on this thing, the way I analyzeit, and I have stayed deliberately away fromIt, but I think I can sense what it is. The way I analyze the thing. Stans would havebeen horrified at any such thing. And, uh,and, uh, what had happened, what happened was that he, he honestly is outraged. He thinks that what happened is that thesepipsqueaks down the line took In some of hishard earned cash and got into silly business with it.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.10DEAN:That's right. He&#8211;PRESIDENT:Isn't that what he really thinks?DEAN:...he, he does and he is a victim ofcircumstances, of innuendo, of false charges. Uh, he has a darn good chance ofwinning that libel suit he's got againstLarry O'Brien.PRESIDENT:Has he? DEAN:He's--that's right.PRESIDENT:Good. That's why Larry filed a countersuit.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:I see Ziegler was disturbed at the news thatthey subpoenaed newsmen. Did it disturbyou?DEAN:It didn't disturb me at allNo, sir. I, Italked to Ron at some length about it theother night and I said...PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:..."Ron, if it--first of all you can berestassured that the White House was not...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)DEAN:...involved in that decision.&#64258; It's not acriminal case, no, it's a civil deposition.PRESIDENT:It doesn't involve prosecution.DEAN:No, it's a civil deposition and, uh, uh,it's not if--we haven't reached the newsman's privilege issue yet, and that'sway down the road, if for some reason theyrefuse to testify on some given evidence. What they're trying to establish is the factthat, uh, Ed-Edward Bennett Williams' lawfirm passed out an amended complaint that libeledFEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.11DEAN:Stans before it was into the Court(CONTINUED)process, so it was not privileged. And thenewsmen are the people who can answer thatquestion. Also, they're trying to find out how Larry O'Brien and Edward BennettWilliams made statements to the effect thatthis law suit was not really to--the first law suit they had brought against the Committee--was not really to establish anyinvasion of privacy, but rather they wereharassing the, uh, uh, the Committee.PRESIDENT:They've made the (unintelligible)?DEAN:They made this off the record to severalnewsmen and we know they did this. That this was a drummed up law suit.PRESIDENT:So therefore that proves, uh, also malice,doesn't it? .DEAN:It., it makes the abuse of process s--, uhcase that we have against them on a counter suit. And the lawyers made a very consciousand good decision that--to proceed with thesuit, they were going to have to have this information and it doesn't bother me that,uh, they subpoenaed nine or ten. . .PRESIDENT:Well, one hell of a lot of people don't giveone God damn about this issue of suppression of the press, and so forth. We know that wearen't trying to do it, when they can allsqueal about it. It's amusing to me when they say, when somebody says'. "I watchedthe networks and they weren't-and I thoughtthey were restrained.&#64258; What the Christ do they want them to do--to go through the &#8218;68 syndrome, when they were eight to oneagainst us? They were only three to onethis, this time on the--according to the average. You know, it's really, really,really sickening, you know, to see&#8211;DEAN:Right.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.12PRESIDENT:...these guys that always, they always figured,"Well, we have the press on our side.&#64258; Then when we, uh, we, we receive a modest amount of support--DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Colson, sure, making them move it around, saying(unintelligible) we don't like this or that but,uh, it didn't affect them.DEAN:Well, you know Colson's threat of a law suitthat was, was printed in Evans and Novak had a very sobering effect on several of the national magazines. They are now checking before theyprint a lot of this Watergate junk they print,with the press office trying to get a confirmation, denial, comment or calling the individual that's involved. And they have said as much as they are doing it because they are afraid someone is going to bring a libel suit on them. So it did have a sobering effect. Itwill keep them, maybe, honest if we can, uh,remind them that they can't print anything, I mean, uh--PRESIDENT:Well, you of course know, that I said at thetime of the Hills case--well, it is God damned near impossible for a public figure to win alibelDEAN:Yes sir, it is. PRESIDENT:...case anymore. DEAN:To establish (1) malice, or reckless disregardof--no they're both very difficult.PRESIDENT:(Sneezes) Yeah. Well, malice isimpossible,virtually. This guy up there, ''Who,me?''Reckless disregard, you can, maybe.DEAN:Tough. That's a bad decision, Mr. President. Itreally is. It was a bad decision.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). What the hell happened.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.13PRESIDENT:What's the name of that--(CONTINUED)DEAN:Uh.PRESIDENT:I don't remember the case, but it was ahorrible decision.DEAN:New York Times versus Sullivan.PRESIDENT:And that Sullivan case. DEAN:(Unintelligible) and it came out of, Uh, outof the South on a civil rights--PRESIDENT:Selma. It was talking about some, some guythat was--yeah, he was a police chief or something. Anyway, I remember reading it atthe time when--that's when we were suingLife, you know, for the Hills. When Life was guilty as hell. Did they win it? Supreme Court--four to three. There were acouple of people who couldn't, uh--no, five,five to four--five to three and a half.DEAN:(Laughs) PRESIDENT:Basically, the, uh--Well, this goes back toexecutive privilege clearly understood. Uh,we must, uh, we must, must go forward on that. Just so you understand. I thinkYou'd better go over and get in touch withDick, and say: you keep it at your level; don't say the President told you to say so. Well, I guess it's going to be me in theend, but I, I'd say, "This is the position,Dick, you should take.&#64258; Period. Let'; let him get out there and take it. But I don'twant them to think they can appeal to me.You can tell him that I took that position with Baker.DEAN:Baker.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.14PRESIDENT:Baker's a smoothy--impressive--"Oh, thePresidentdidn't say this or that," he said,"we don't think he'll tell them this.''DEAN:(Laughs) PRESIDENT:Then held say, "All right, they have studiedit, they have recommended it and thePresident has approved it."Right?DEAN:Now how about-- PRESIDENT:Is that what you want to say?DEAN:Yessir, I, I, I think that's absolutely onall fours. And, uh, how about our dealings withBaker? Under normal Congressionalrelations, uh, vis-a-vis Timmons and Baker,should wehave Timmons making, uh, dealing with one of the--PRESIDENT:Well, he, he objected to, uh, I mean,something, nowthat's a curious thing onthat--it's hard toknow whether this would be a very big gaffby calling him, urging and trying to influencewho would be on hisstaff. But JesusChrist, uh, I don't knowwhy he did blow, he did that, if he did. I don't--But if he did, I don't know why Bakerwould resent it. But, nevertheless, he--DEAN:(Clears throat) PRESIDENT:Idon't know how to deal with him,frankly, such as my decision. I gatheredthe impression that Baker didn't wanttotalk to anybody but Kleindienst.DEAN:Okay, I think that's one we'll just have tomonitor and that's one we'll havePRESIDENT:Fine. DEAN:to know an awful lot about if somethingcomes down the road.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.15PRESIDENT:Well, let's just let Timmons tell Baker thatif he wants to talk to, if he wants to getanybody at the White House, that I don'twant him to talk to Timmons. Of course Timmons is a party in interest here, too. Idon't want him toDEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:...talk to Haldeman; I-don't want him totalk to Ehrlichman, that you're the man&#352;andthat you're available. But leave it thatway: that you're available to talk to him but not for everything. But, nobody else.How does that sound to you?DEAN:I think that sounds good. PRESIDENT:You tell Timmons that he sees him privatelyand says that's-it. We are not pressinghim. We don't care, we're not--becauseBaker-(sighs). The woods are full of weak men.DEAN:I would suspect if we're going to get anyinsight into what that--that SpecialCommittee is going to do, it's going to be through the Gurneys--I don't know aboutWeicker, uh, where he's&#8211;PRESIDENT:Weicker's a&#8211; DEAN:...going to fall out on this thing. PRESIDENT:&#8211;well, he'll, he'll he'll be--DEAN:Whatever's up--PRESIDENT:I think Weicker, t he line to Weicker isGray. Now, Gray has got to shape up hereand, and, uh, handle himself well, top. Doyou think he will?DEAN:I do. I think Pat is, uh, think Pat istough. He goes up this morning, as you know.Uh, he is, uh, bets ready. He's verycomfortable in all of the decisions be has made, and, uh, I think he'll be good.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.16PRESIDENT:But he's close to Weicker--that's what Imeant.DEAN:Yeah, he is.PRESIDENT:And, uh, so, uh, Gray, Gray--- DEAN:As a vehicle--yes.PRESIDENT:One rather amusing thing about the Graything is that I, I, I, and I knew this would come--they constantly say that Gray is a political crony of, and a personal crony ofthe President's. Did you know that I havenever seen him socially?DEAN:Is that correct?. No, I didn't.PRESIDENT:He's--I think he's been to a couple of WhiteHouse--but I have never seen Pat Gray separately.DEAN:Oh, the press has got him meeting you at asocial function. And, and, uh, going onfrom there.PRESIDENT:When? DEAN:Back in (sighs) &#8218;47, 1 think, is something Ihave read.PRESIDENT:Maybe Radford had a party or something. DEAN:Something like that.PRESIDENT:Something like that. But-that's all. Uh,well that's--I don't know. Gray is, uh, is somebody that I, that I know only as a-He was a, he was Radford's Assistant, used. toattend NSC meetings.DEAN:Uh huh. PRESIDENT:So I've met him. He's never been social.Edgar Hoover, on the other hand, I have seensocially at least a hundred times. He and I were very close friends.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.17DEAN:That's curious, the way the press just--PRESIDENT:But John--and that's the point: Hoover wasmy crony and friend. He was as close orcloser to me than Johnson, actually, although Johnson used him more. But as forPat Gray, Christ, I never saw him.DEAN:While it might have been, uh, a lot of bluechips to the late Director, I think we would have been a lot better off during this wholeWatergate thing if held been alive, 'causehe knew how to handle that BureauPRESIDENT:Oh.DEAN:...knew how to keep them in bounds', uhwas atough cookie.PRESIDENT:Well, if, if Hoover ever fought--He wouldhave fought, that's the point. Held havefired a few people, or he'd have scared themto death. He's got files on everybody, God damn it.DEAN:(Laughs) That's right.PRESIDENT:But now, at the present time, the Bur eau isleaking like a sieve, and, uh, Baker, and, and--Gray denies it. Just says it's notComing from the Bureau. Just who in thehell is it coming from? How in the hell could it be coming from anybody else? It Isn't coming from Henry Petersen, is it?DEAN:No. I just would not--PRESIDENT:It isn't coming from the depositions, is it? DEAN:No. It's that, well, they're getting,they're getting raw data. They're gettingthe raw, what they call, 302 forms.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Those are the summaries of the interviews.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.18PRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah. Well, (coughs) if you coulddo-handle it that way, I think that's thebest thing to do. Do you ever wonder,really, if Colson, who's got the brass, the balls of a brass monkey, shouldn't bring asuit. Now, then, uh, understand, that Iknow that Colson, Colson's got a lot of vulnerabilities. Uh, You know, in terms of people that he knew, and so forth and so on.It's certainly an issue. But I mean on anarrow issue--DEAN:Well, Chuck and I talked about this.PRESIDENT:He could win it.DEAN:He, he could possibly win the suit, but, uh,lose the war for this reasonPRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)DEAN:...A counter-discovery in a libel action hasno bounds.PRESIDENT:I get it. Okay. DEAN:The subject is wide open.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)DEAN:That's the problem there. PRESIDENT:That's the District Code in the FederalCourt?DEAN:That's right. They could just come in and,and depose him on everything he's done at any point in time, and that does it.PRESIDENT:Keep him out of it. Keep him out of it.DEAN:Right. PRESIDENT:Why doesn't Stans be the suer? He is thesuer, anyway.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.19DEAN:He's got a good one, and, uh, uh, he maywell prevail. Way--It may well be thedevice to force a settlement of all theseother suits we've got out there. You know, we've got fourteen million dollars worth ofsuits against us, and we've got seven ors--, or ten against them.PRESIDENT:Christ, they all ought to get together anddrop them.DEAN:That's what we're trying to getaccomplished.PRESIDENT:Hell, yes.DEAN:They're just costing, they're, they'recausing everybody problems, and, uh--PRESIDENT:That's right, that's right--and they've gotproblems, and we've got them.DEAN:Uh--PRESIDENT:So, you see this Vesco thing coming up burnsmy tail, 'cause I, I raised hell with Haldeman on this and he didn't do anythingabout it. Well, I guess he couldn't. Whatin the name of God ever became of our investigation of their financial activities?Jesus Christ, they borrowed--they cancelleddebts, they borrowed money. What the hell is that?DEAN:It's, uh, it's still going on, Mr.President. They're--Look--McGovern's stuffis in such bad shape. That's another unfortunate thing. The GAO comes in to auditus.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:They, they, find all the documents, so theyare able to make--PRESIDENT:That might (unintelligible) GAO say that.DEAN:They--Well, they have now, but it, you know,gets about that muchFEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.20PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...coverage in the paper. They can't evenfigure out what McGovern's done, the booksare in such a mess, but you haven't seen them say anything yet. And that's one ofthose things that, hopefully, we'll, uh ...PRESIDENT:Bring out in the hearings. DEAN:...bring out as to what a mess this was,and, and--PRESIDENT:How are you going to bring it out? You can'tbring it out in these hearingsDEAN:Well I think, I thinkPRESIDENT:...Ervin'll rule it out.DEAN:...I think an independent sort of media typewill bring it out, uh. Chuck is going to be of aid when he is out there not connectedwith the White House.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Little bits of tidbits can be dropped toChuck, 'cause Chuck'll still have hischannels toPRESIDENT:Sure. DEAN:...push things out.PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:And also-- PRESIDENT:That's what--In my view, I have use--Ofcourse it's hard for him to leave because heloves the action and the rest. But apartfrom the financial part of it, at his age, and so forth--which everybody has to thinkof-Colson can be more valuable out than In,because, basically in, he just reached the Point where he was, uh, he was too visible.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.21DEAN:He's a lightning rod.PRESIDENT:And, uh, and outside, I mean, he can startthis and that and tell them, "I'm a privatecitizen and I'm saying what I God damn please. " Right?DEAN:That's right. That's absolutely right. Ithink Chuck can be of great aid in this thing, and I think he'll, uh, he'll do it.PRESIDENT:Now, on the other thing, that is, to recap:You willl talk to, uh, Timmons about theBaker thing. Get that--get him tied down to the extent he can. I doubt if much could bedone there. You must talk to Kleindienst,fast, so that Kleindienst knows that it's been decided, and that's it. And he'll say, "Well, they won't take it.''(Unintelligible). That's all right. That'swhat it is, you know. Go on to the written interrogatory thing. We shall see. Your, your view would be not to give any furtherground on that?DEAN:I'd say hold--You know, you, you, youinitially hold the line as far as you-go ifit becomes apparent that it's necessary forinformational purposes.PRESIDENT:When the main, the main thing is not to-- DEAN:I mean, the President, the President's notgoing to hide any information. He's---PRESIDENT:Huh? DEAN:You're not going to hide any information.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:Then this can be given in a sworn statement,uh, through, uh, an interrogatory--send your questions down, they'll be answered. Wewon't hide the information. We won't, uh,change the, uh, the nature of the ability of the President to make decisions, to operateinternally and the likeFEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.22PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...because you have a political circusgoing.PRESIDENT:Okay. I understand you, you--thatMollenhoff still thinks everybody should goup and testify.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENTUh, but at least you had a talk with him. Ido want you to look into the case, though.DEAN:Yes, sir, I am.PRESIDENT:If the guy's got a bad rap, uh, his, hisman, God damn it, we'll get him out.DEAN:I am doing that. I talked to Clark, uhPRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...yesterday. Uh, I talked to him lastnight again.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Okay.DEAN:And, I--he's on this as hot and heavy as canbe and--PRESIDENT:Well, does he think he's got a bad rap?DEAN:He does--he thinks he's got a bad rap. AndI, you know--PRESIDENT:Maybe he has.DEAN:It's very funny--PRESIDENT:I know Rule doesn't have a bad rap. Thatmuch--which, uh, by, when, when Rule, Rule, Rule, uh, because when, when a, when abureaucrat takes it upon himself to go outand, and go way beyond the pale in terms of attacking an Administration like he did,that can't be tolerated. That--He,he--you've got to--FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.23DEAN:It's a different--PRESIDENT:Suppose a Congressman or a Senator or one ofhis Administrative Assistants went out andattacked one of his contributors. What the hell would he do? Fire him. That's right.DEAN:Right.PRESIDENT:No--I noticed several of our Congressmen andbrave Republican Senators called upon us to reinstate Rule. Congress is, of course, onits, its--It can--I guess they are soenormously frustrated that they're irrelevant. Isn't that the point? That'stheir problem.DEAN:I think, I think there's a lot of that. PRESIDENT:It's too bad we-can't take no comfort-we cantake very little comfort from this; we haveto work. But they become irrelevant becausethey're so damned irresponsible. Much as we would like that it would be otherwise. Pretty sad lot, isn't it?DEAN:It is. Yes, sir. I spent some. years onthe Hill myself and one of the things I always noticed was the inability of the, ofthe Congress to, to deal effectively withthe Executive Branch because (1) they don't they've never supplied themselves with adequate staffs, in other words, hadadequate information available, uh--PRESIDENT:Well now they've got huge-staffs, though,compared to what we had, you see.DEAN:Well they've got huge staffs, uh, true, asopposed to what they had years ago.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) DEAN:But they are still&#8211;PRESIDENT:Inadequate.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.24DEAN:...inadequate to deal effectively--PRESIDENT:God, don't, don't, don't (coughs), don't getinto--Please don't try (unintelligible)DEAN:No, no, I'm not suggesting that--I keep, uh,I reserve my...PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...my observations for myself. (Pause)Well, I think this, these hearings are going to be hot, and I think they are going to betough. Uh, I think they are going to begory in some regards, but I'm also convinced that if everyone pulls their own oar in thisthing, in all those we've got with variousconcerns., that we can make it through these, and minimal people will be hurt. And they may even paint themselves as being suchpartisans and off base, that they're reallydamaging the institutions of government themselves, and-PRESIDENT:(Coughs) I frankly would say that I perhapsrather that they be partisan--that they getto be partisan.DEAN:I, we're going to hope they, uh--PRESIDENT:I, I'd rather have that rather than for themto have the facade of fairness and all the rest, and then come out--'cause Ervin, in spite of all this business about his being agreat Constitutional lawyer--Christ, he'sgot, he's got Baker totally buffaloed on that. I mean, Ervin is as partisan as mostOf our Southern gentlemen are. They, they,they are great politicians. They're just more clever than the minority. Just more clever.DEAN:Well, I'm, I'm convinced it may be shownthat he is merely a puppet for Kennedy in this whole thing.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.25DEAN:For Kennedy. The fine hand of the Kennedy'sis behind this whole hearing that's goingon--or that is forthcoming. There is nodoubt about it. When, when they. considered the resolutions on the floor of the Senate Igot the Record out to read it. Who askedspecial permission to have their staff man on the floor? Kennedy.PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:...brings this man Flug out on the floorwhen they're debating a resolution. He is the only one that did this. Uh, it's beenKennedy's push, quietly, his constantinvestigation, his committee using their subpoenas to get at Kalmbach, uh, and all these people.PRESIDENT:Uh huh.DEAN:...that's kept the. quiet and constantpressure on the thing. I think this fellow Sam Dash, who has been selected Counsel, isa Kennedy choice. I think it's alsosomething we'll be able to quietly and slowly document. People will print it inthe press, and, uh...PRESIDENT:Um huh. DEAN:&#8211;the partisan cast of this will become muchmore apparent.PRESIDENT:Yeah, I guess the Kennedy crowd is justlaying in the bushes waiting to make their move. Boy, it's a shocking thing. You know,we, we talk about Johnson using the FBI.Did Your friends tell You whether--what Bobby did, or whether he knew what they (unintelligible)DEAN:in I haven't heard but I wouldn't--PRESIDENT:Johnson believes that Bobby bugged him.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.26DEAN:That wouldn't surprise me, uh--PRESIDENT:Bobby was a ruthless little bastard. Butthe FBI does--they, they tell you that, uh,Sullivan told you that, the New Jersey thing? We did use a bug up there--just forintelligence work.DEAN:Intelligence work--just had agents all over(unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Frankly, the doctors say that the poor oldgent had a tumor.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:The FBI (unintelligible)DEAN:Well, uh, he used Abe Fortas and DekeDeLoach backed up by, uh, some other people in the Bureau that were standing ready to go out and try to talk this doctor intoexamining Walter Jenkins to say the man hada brain tumor. He was very ill, that's why the erratic behavior. And this doctor, uh, wouldn't buy it.PRESIDENT:The doctor had never examined him before oranything.DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:They were trying to set that up though, huh.DEAN:Oh, yeah, that would've-- PRESIDENT:What other kind of activities? DEAN:Well, I, you know, as I say, I haven'tprobed uh, uhPRESIDENT:Sullivan. DEAN:...Sullivan to the depths on this becausehe's, he's one I want to treat at arm'slength, till we make sure...FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.27PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:...he is safe.PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:But he has a world of information that, uh,may be available.PRESIDENT:But he says that what happened on the, onthe, uh, bugging thing is--who told what to whom again? The bugging thing?DEAN:Oh. On the &#8218;68 thing--I was trying to trackdown the, the leaks.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:He said that the only place he could figureit coming from-would be one of a couple ofsources he was aware of., uh, that had been somewhat discussed publicly. He said that Hoover had told Patrick Coyne about the factthat this was being done. Coyne had toldRockefeller.PRESIDENT:Yeah(unintelligible) DEAN:Now Rockefeller had told Kissinger. Now, Ihave never run it any step beyond what Mr.Sullivan said there. Now the other thing is that when the records were unavailable forHoover--all this and the logs...PRESIDENT:Yeah. (Clears throat) DEAN:...Hoover tried to re--, reconstruct them bygoing to the Washington Field Office and hemade a pretty good stir about what he wasdoing when he was trying to get the record and reconstruct It. And, he said that atthat time we probably hit the grapevine Inthe Bureau that this had occurred. But there is no evidence of it. Uh, the records show at the Department of Justice and, andthe FBI that there's no such, uh,surveillance was ever conducted. Uh-FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.28PRESIDENT:Shocking (unintelligible)DEAN:Now, about White House staff and reportersand the like, and, now, the only, the otherperson that knows--is aware of It--is Mark Felt, and we've talked about Mark Felt, and,uh--I guess, uh--PRESIDENT:What does it do to him, though? Let's faceit. You know, suppose that Felt come out and unwraps the whole thing. What does itdo to him?DEAN:He can't do it. It just-- PRESIDENT:But my point is: Who's going to hire him?DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Let's face it. DEAN:He can't. He's-- PRESIDENT:If he--the guy that does that can go outand, uh, you mean he's a--of course, hecouldn't do it unless he had a guarantee from somebody like Time magazine saying "Look we'll give you a job for life.'' Thenwhat do they do? They put him in a job forlife, and everybody would treat him like a pariah. He's in a very dangerous situation.These guys you know--the informers, lookwhat it did to Chambers. Chambers informed because he didn't give a God damn.DEAN:Right.PRESIDENT:But then, one of the most brilliant writersaccording to Jim (unintelligible) we've ever seen in this country--and I am not referringto the Communist issue--this, this greatestsingle guy in the time of twenty-five or, thirty years ago, probably, probably the best writer in, in this century. Theyfinished him.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.29DEAN:Uh huh. Well, I think, I, there's no--PRESIDENT:Either way, either way, the, the, theinformer is not wanted in our society.Either way, that's the one thing people do sort of line up against. They...DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:...they say, well that son-of-a-bitchinformed. I don't want him around. We wouldn't want him around, would we?DEAN:I don't, uh--PRESIDENT:Hoover to Coyne to N.R. to K. Right? DEAN:Right.PRESIDENT:Good God. Why would Coyne tell NelsonRockefeller? He was--I've known Coyne for years. I've--not well, but I--he was a great friend of, oh, uh, one of myAdministrative--Bob, uh, King, who was aBureau man.DEAN:Now this is Sullivan's story. I have no-- PRESIDENT:Fine. That's all right.DEAN:I don't know if it's true, but I don't haveany reason to doubt that-PRESIDENT:Most of this is Gospel. Hoover told me, souh--and he also told Mitchell, personally,that this had happened. -(Uninte1ligible)DEAN:Are you talking--I was talking about the '68uh, incident that just occurred. Not the-PRESIDENT:I'm talking about the &#8218;68 bugging of theplane.DEAN:Yeah. Oh, I wasn't referring to that now.When this, when this Coyne, uh--PRESIDENT:Oh, oh, that's-FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.30DEAN:This, this was the, this was the fact thatnewsmen had been, uh, I, I--excuse me, Ithought he meant the reference to the factthat, uhPRESIDENT:Oh.DEAN:...three years ago the White House hadallegedly--the Time story.PRESIDENT:Oh, this is a--That's, that's not the, uh-- DEAN:No. on the, on the 168 Incident, uh, allI've been able to find out is what you toldme that Hoover had told you, what he'dPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...told Mitchell.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:He, uh-- PRESIDENT:Mitchell corroborates that, doesn't he?DEAN:That's right. Uh, then--PRESIDENT:Sullivan doesn't remember that? DEAN:Kevin Phillips called Pat Buchanan the otherday with, with a, with a tidbit that, uh,Dick Whelan onPRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...the NSC staff had seen memorandum betweenthe NSC and the FBI that the FBI had beeninstructed to put surveillance on Anna Chennault, the South Vietnamese Embassy and...PRESIDENT:That is a-DEAN:...the Agnew plane. PRESIDENT:Agnew?FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.31DEAN:Agnew plane.PRESIDENT:They put it on our--well, this isn't mine-maybe I'm wrong.DEAN:Now, and it said al--, and this note alsosaid that, uh, Deke DeLoach was theoperative FBI officer on this.PRESIDENT:I think DeLoach's memory now is very, veryhazy in that connection. He doesn't remember anything.DEAN:Well, I talked to Mitchell about this andMitchel1 says that he's talked to DeLoach. DeLoach has in his possession, and he haslet Mitchell review them, some of the fileson this. Uh-PRESIDENT:But not, but not-- DEAN:But they don't go very far; they don't govery far--This, this is DeLoach, uh,protecting his own hide. The, uh-PRESIDENT:They are never going to--It's Just as well,to be candid with you. Just as well.But,uh-so Hoover told Coyne, and, uh, and--whotold Rockefeller...DEAN:--that this--PRESIDENT:...who told Kissinger that newsmen werebeing bugged ...DEAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:...by us.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Now why would Hoover do that? DEAN:I don't have the foggiest. This wasSullivan's story as to where, uh, the leakmight have come from about this current Time Magazine story, which we are stone-walling totally, uh--FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.32PRESIDENT:Oh, absolutely.(Note: At this point , a discussion of oneminute and twelve seconds which is notpertinent is not transcribed)PRESIDENT:Sure. And the, and the, and the, andHenry's staff--He insisted on Lake, you seeafter working with.McGov--, uh, uh, for Muskie.DEAN:Um. huh.PRESIDENT:Incidentally, didn't Muskie do anything badon there? (Unintelligible) Henry (unintelligible). At least I know notbecause I know that, I know that he askedthat it be done, and I assumed that it was. Lake and Halperin. They're both bad. But the taps were, too. (Unintelligible) Theynever caught us. Just gobs and gobs ofmaterial: gossip and bull-shitting (unintelligible).DEAN:Um uh.PRESIDENT:The tapping was a very, very unproductivething. I've always known that. At least, I've never, it's never been useful in anyoperation I've ever conducted. (Pause)Well, it is your view that we should try to get out that '68 story then?DEAN:Well, I think the threat&#8211;PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)DEAN:...the threat of the '68 story when, whenScott and the others were arguing that theCommittee up on the Hill broadened itsmandate...PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...to include other electionsPRESIDENT:Yeah.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.33DEAN:...they were hinting around that somethingoccurred in '68 and '64 that should belooked at.PRESIDENT:Right. Goldwater claims he was bugged. DEAN:That's right. Now I think that, I thinkthat, that threatsPRESIDENT:Did you think Gold--Oh, you, didn't you saythat Johnson did bug Goldwater's--?DEAN:He, he didn't--well, I, we don't know, Idon't know if he bugged him, butPRESIDENT:He did intelligence work? DEAN:...he did intelligence work up one side anddown the other...PRESIDENT:From the FBI? DEAN:...from the FBI. Uh, just up one side anddown the other on Goldwater.PRESIDENT:Um hm.DEAN:Now I have not had a chance to talk to theSenator, and I've known the Senator for twenty years. Uh, he Is the first man inPublic life I ever met. Uh, Barry Jr. andI were roommates in school together, so I, and I can talk to the man.PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:I am really going to sit down with him oneday and sayPRESIDENT:I think you should.DEAN:...say, "what&#8211;"PRESIDENT:Say, "What the hell do you&#8211;" DEAN:"&#8211;what, what do you&#8211;"FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.34PRESIDENT:&#64257;...Do you have any hard evidence?"DEAN:That's right. Then we can go from there andPRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:... possibly reconstruct some things. PRESIDENT:Get some stuff written, and so forth. I dothink you've got to remember that, as yousure do, this is mainly a public relations thing, anyway. What is the situation, incidentally, with regard to the, thesentencing of our, of the people, the seven?When the hell is that going to occur?DEAN:That's likely to occur, I would say, (sighs)could occur as early as late this week, morelikely some time next week.PRESIDENT:Why has it been delayed so long? DEAN:Well, they, they've been in, in process ofpreparing the pre-sentence report. TheJudge sends out probation officers to find out everybody who knewPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...these people, and then he'll--PRESIDENT:He's trying to work on them to break them Ishe? (Unintelligible)DEAN:Well, there's some of that. They are usingthe Probation officer for more than a normal probation report. They are trying to, uhPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...do a mini-investigation by the Judgehimself, which is his only investigative tool here, so they, that, they are virtuallycompleted now. They--the U.S. Attorney whohandles, the, the Assistant U.S. Attorney.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.35PRESIDENT:You know when they talk, though, about athirty-five year sentence, now here's, here'ssomething that does not involve--There were noweapons, right? There were no injuries, right?There was no succe--well, success maybe--Idon't know. The point is--the, uh-that, thatsort of thing is just ridiculous. One ofthese, one of these blacks, you know, goes inhere and holds up a, a store with a God damnedgun, and, uh, they give him two years and thenprobation afterDEAN:And they&#8211;PRESIDENT:...six months. DEAN:and they let him out on, on bond during thetime that he is considering his case. Thesefellows cannot get out--PRESIDENT:Are they out? Have they been in jail?DEAN:They're in--well, all but one. Hunt made the,the, bond. Everybody else is in jail. The'vegot a hundred thousand dollar surety bondwhich means they have to put up actualcollateral, but uh, and none of these people have a hundred thousand dollars. The Court ofAppeals has been sitting for two weeks orbetter now on a review of the bond issue.They're not even letting these people out toprepare their case for appeal.(Note: At this point, a discussion of aboutfifteen minutes which is not pertinent is not transcribed)(Reel One Ends)(Reel Two Begins)PRESIDENT:You still think Sullivan is basicallyreliable?DEAN:I, I have nothing to JudgePRESIDENT:No.DEAN:&#8211;that on other--I watched him for a number ofyears. I watched him when he was workingFEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.36DEAN:with Tom Huston on domestic intelligence,(CONTINUED)and his, in his desire to do the rightthing. Uh, I tried to, you know, stay intouch with Bill, and find out what his moods are. Bill was forced on the outside for along time. He didn't become, he didn'tbecome bitter. He sat back and waited until he could come back in. Uh. he didn't try to force or blackmail his way around, uh,with knowledge he had. So, I, I have no, Ihave no signs of anything but a reliable man who thinks a great deal of thisAdministration and of, and of you.PRESIDENT:You understand the problem we have here isthat Gray is going to insist, I am sure, come down hard for Felt as the second man.And that would worry the bell out of me ifFelt--I think at the present time it doesn't.DEAN:It, it worries me, frankly.PRESIDENT:But for the future isn't it a problem?DEAN:I think it is for the future, 'causeonl-things can only get more complex overthere as we move along. There is no(laughs) doubt about it.PRESIDENT:Well, as he gets closer to the nextelection--Oh, uh, (unintelligible). I don'tknow Felt, never met him. What's he looklike? (Note: At this point, there was a discussion of one minute and sixteen secondsdeleted which is not pertinent)DEAN:Well, I've got to say one thing. There hasnever been a leak out of my (laughs) office. There never willPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...be a leak out of my office.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.37PRESIDENT:No.DEAN:I wouldn't begin to know how to leak, even.I don't want to learn how you 1eak.PRESIDENT:Well, it was a shocking thing. I wasreading a book last night on--Quite afascinating little book, not well written,by Malcolm Smith, Jr. on Kennedy's thirteen mistakes (unintelligible) foreign policy practices. They are great mistakes, and oneof them had to do with the Bay of Pigsthing. And, what had happened there was, uh, Chester Bowles had learned about it, andhe deliberately leaked it. Deliberately,because he wanted the operation to fail.DEAN:Hm. PRESIDENT:And admitted it later.DEAN:Interesting.PRESIDENT:Admitted it. DEAN:Interesting. PRESIDENT:This happens all the time. Well, you can,uh, follow these characters to the, to theirGethsemane. I, I feel for those poor guys in jail, I mean, I don't know--particularlyfor Hunt. Hunt with his wife, uh, dead.It's a tough thing.DEAN:Well... PRESIDENT:We have to do (unintelligible)DEAN:...every indication...PRESIDENT:You will have to do-- DEAN:...that they're, they're hanging in toughright now.PRESIDENT:What the hell do they expect, though? Dothey expect to get clemency within a reasonable time?FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.38DEAN:I think they do. (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:What would you say? What would you advise onthat?DEAN:Uh, I think it's one of those things we'llhave to watch very closely. For example--PRESIDENT:You couldn't do it, you couldn't do it, say,in six months?DEAN:No. PRESIDENT:No.DEAN:No. you couldn't. This thing may become sopolitical as a result of thesePRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...hearings that it is, it, it, is morePRESIDENT:A vendetta? DEAN:Yeah, it's a vendetta. This judge may, maygo off the deep end in sentencing and makeit so absurd that, uh, it's clearly aninjustice, uhPRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...that they have been heavi1yPRESIDENT:Are they going to feel--Uh, is there anykind of appeals left?DEAN:Right. Liddy, Liddy and McCord, who satthrough the trial, will both be on appealPRESIDENT:Uh huh. DEAN:And, uh, there is no telling how long thatwill last. I think this is one of the, oneof these things we'll just have to watch.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.39PRESIDENT:My view is say nothing about the event onthe ground that the matter is still in thecourts and on appeal.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:That's my position. Second, my view is tosay nothing about the hearings at thispoint, except that "I trust that they will be conducted in the proper way," and, "I will not comment on the hearings while theyare in process.&#64258; Uh, uh, yeah. And then I,of course if they break through--if they get a pot luck--But you see, it's best not toelevate--and I get Ziegler to do thesame--it's best not to elevate that thing here to the White House. 'Cause I don't want the White House gabbing around aboutthe God damned thing. Now there., ofcourse, you'd say, "But you leave it all to them.''(High frequency tone for four seconds)PRESIDENT:&#8211;Our policy. But the President should notbe commenting on this case. Do you agree to that?DEAN:I agree totaly, sir. Absolutely. Now,,that doesn't mean that quietly we're not going to be working around the (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)DEAN:But, uh, you can rest assured that, uh,we're not going to be sitting quietly.PRESIDENT:I don't know what we can do. The peoplethat are most disturbed about this (unintelligible) now are the God damned Republicans. A lot of these Congressmen,financial contributors, and so forth arehighly moral. The Democrats are just sort of saying, "Oh, Christ, fun and games. Funand games.""FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.40DEAN:Well, hopefully we can--PRESIDENT:Take that Segretti thing. Ha, Jesus Christ.He was sort of a clownish figure, I don'tsee how our boys (1aughs), could have gone for him. But nevertheless, they did. Itwas, it was really--shall we say, juvenile,the way that was handled. But nevertheless, what the hel1 did he do? What in the name of God did he do? Should, shouldn't we get, betrying to get intelligence? Weren't theytrying to get intelligence from us?DEAN:Absolutely.PRESIDENT:Don't we try to get schedules? Don't you tryto disrupt their meetings? Didn't they try to disrupt ours? Christ, they threw rocks, ran demonstrations, and shouted, cut thepublic address system, they had to tear gasthem in Miami. What the hell was that all about?DEAN:Well--PRESIDENT:Did we do that?DEAN:McGovern had Dick Tuck on his payroll, uh,and Dick Tuck was down in Texas when youwent down to the Connally ranch, set up todo a prank down there.PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:But it never came off, uh--PRESIDENT:What did, what, what did, what, what didSegretti do that came off? Much? I mean--DEAN:He, he, he did some, some humorous things.HePRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:For example, there'd be a fund raisingdinner, and he had hired Wayne the Wizard tofly in from the Virgin Islands to perform amagic show, and, of course, he hadn't been hired. He sent uh...FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.41PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...he sent invitations to all these blackdiplomats and...PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...and sent limousines out to have thempicked up, uh, and they all showed up andthey hadn't been invited. He, he had four hundred pizzas sent to another, uh--PRESIDENT:Yeah, sure, sure.DEAN:I mean this is, this isPRESIDENT:Well, what the hell. DEAN:&#8211;pranks.PRESIDENT:Tuck do all this sort of thing?DEAN:And so, so-- PRESIDENT:They did it to me in '62 in 1960, and therest--they want to say, "Well, now, that'sterrible. Now isn't that terrible?&#64258; Whatthe hell.DEAN:I think we can keep this, uh, the Segrettistuff in perspective because it's not thatbad. Chapin's involvement is not that deep.Uh, he was a catalyst, and that's about the extent of it.PRESIDENT:Sure, he, he knew him and recommended him.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:But he didn't run him. He was tog busy withus.DEAN:The one I think they're going to go after,uh, with a vengeance, and who I plan to spend a great deal of time with next week, acouple of days, as a matter of fact, gettingthis all in order--is Herb Kalmbach.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.42PRESIDENT:Yes.DEAN:Uh, Herb has got--they've subpoenaed hisrecords, and he's got records that run allover hell's acre on things for the last few years, uh. You know Herb has been a manwho's been moving things around for Mauryand keeping things inPRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:...in tow and taking care of little pollinginferences.PRESIDENT:What'll he do about those records? Is hegoing to give 'em all to them?DEAN:Well, he's, he--they brought his--they,they've gotten to the banks that had them, and I think what we'll do is we'll-there'll be a logical, natural explanation for everysingle transaction.PRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:It's just a lot of minutia we've got to gothrough but we--he's coming in next week andwe--I told him we'd sit down and he ispreparing everything, getting all of it available, and we're going to sit down withhis, with Frank DeMarco, uh, and see if wecan't get this whole thing--PRESIDENT:Now, his records, that is, with regards tothe campaign. They can't re--, they can'tget his records with regard to his privatetransactions?DEAN:No, none of the private transactions.Absolutely. That is privileged material.PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:Anything to do with San Clemente and, andthe like--that is just so far out of boundsthat, uh--FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.43PRESIDENT:Yeah. Did they ask for that?DEAN:No, no, no. No indication of that.PRESIDENT:Good. Oh. well, even if it is, I mean--DEAN:Well, it's just none--that's really none oftheir business.PRESIDENT:They can't get it. Kalmbach is a decentfellow. He'll make a good witness.DEAN:I think he will. He's been PRESIDENT:He's smart.DEAN:...he, he's been tough thus far. He hasn't-you know, he has been taking it. His skin is thick now. Uh, sure it bothered him, andall this press he was getting. The L.A. Times has been running stories on him all the time andPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...and the like. Local stations have beenmaking him more of a personality, and, and, his partners have been nipping at him but Herb's tough now. He is ready and he'sgoing to go through and he's going to-He ishunkered down and he's ready to handle it. So I'm not worried ...PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...about Herb at all. PRESIDENT:Oh well, it, it'11 be hard for him,he-'cause it'll, it'll get out about Hunt.it, it--I suppose the big thing is thefinancing transaction they'll go after. How did the money get to the Bank of Mexico andso forth and so on.DEAN:All that stuff. And then--FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.44PRESIDENT:What'll he say?DEAN:It can all be explained.PRESIDENT:It can?DEAN:Yes, indeed. Yes, sir. They're going to bedisappointed With a lot of the answers theyget...PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...when they actually get the facts--becausethe Times and the Post had such fun withinnuendo. When they get the facts, they'regoing to be disappointed.PRESIDENT:The one point that you ought to, you betterget to Baker. I tried to get it through histhick skull. I guess it's-his skull is not thick--but tell, tell Kleindienst--Kleindienst in talking to Bakerand Ervin should emphasize that the way tohave a successful hearing and a fair one i to run it like a court: no hearsay, no innuendo. Now you know God damned well theyaren't going to...DEAN:But, that's a hell of a good point. PRESIDENT:but don't--no hearsay. Tell them that's theway Nixon ran the Hiss case. Now, as amatter of fact some innuendo came out but there was God damned little hearsay We really--we, we just got them on the factsand just tore them-to pieces.DEAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Say "No hearsay; no innuendo.&#64258; And thatthat be , Ervin, should sit like a courtthere, say, "Now that's hearsay and I don't like it."' And tell him that the--and that--and let's have the counsel, thecounsel for the, uh, for our people--he getsup there and says, "I object to that, Mr. Chairman, on the basis that it is hearsay.FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.45DEAN:That's an excellent idea, Mr. President, forsome of these early articles, as this thinggets steamed up: "Will, will Sam Ervin,Constitutional man, be a judge? Will he admit hearsay?&#64258; We can probably get somethink pieces out, uh, uh, to get a littlepressure on him to perform that way, or to, to make it look very partisan when he doesn't, you know, he lets all this in--PRESIDENT:I'd like to get some articles out that-nohearsay, no innuendo. There'll be no hearsay, no innuendo. This, this is goingto be, shall we say, a model of aCongressional heating. A model. Now that'll disappoint the God damned press. There's no hearsay, no innuendo, no leaks.DEAN:Well, uh, there, there are a lot ofprecedents. I, I've been involved in two Congressional investigations. Uh, one was the Adam Clayton Powell investigation when Iwas working over there as the MinorityCounsel of the House Judiciary. We didn't take hearsay. We made a--we stuck to thefacts on that.PRESIDENT:Uh huh. DEAN:We did an investigation of the Oklahomajudges. Again, same sort of thing'. Wewent into executive session when necessaryto, uh--I bet--, we look around, we'll find respectable investigations that have beenconducted up there that could be held up,and some of this should be, uh, should be coming forth to set the uh...PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...the...PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...stage for these hearings. Well, I'm, uh,I, I'm planning a number of brain sessionstowith some of these media people to, to-FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.46PRESIDENT:I know. Well, it's, it's very important,and it seems like a terrible waste of, ofyour time. (Unintelligible). It's, it'simportant in the sense that, it's--all this business is a battle and they're, they'regoing to wage the battle. And, uh, a lot ofis their enormous frustration about losing the elections, the state of their party, and so forth. And their party has its problems.We think we've got problems. Look at someof theirs. Strauss is there to pull them all together. He's not, he's not doing allthat well you know.DEAN:Well, I was, you know, we've gone a longroad on this thing now. I had thought it was an impossible task, uh, to hold togetheruntil after the election until things just...PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...started squirting out, but we've made itthis far, and, uh, I'm convinced we're goingto make it the whole road and put this thing in, in, in, uh, the funny pages of thehistory books rather than anything serious.We've got to. It's got to be that way.PRESIDENT:Would it--it'll be somewhat serious, but themain thing, of course, is also the, theisolation of the Presidency from this.DEAN:Absolutely. PRESIDENT:Because it's, because that, fortunately, istotally true.DEAN:I know that sir. PRESIDENT:Good God almighty. I mean, of course, I'mnot dumb, and I will never forget when Iheard about this God damned thing(unintelligible) Jesus Christ, what in the hell is this? What's the matter with thesepeople? Are they crazy? I thought they werenuts. You knowFEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.47PRESIDENT:that it was a prank. But it wasn't. It(CONTINUED)was really something. I think that ourDemocratic friends know that's true, too.They know what the hellDEAN:I think they do too.PRESIDENT:...this was. I mean they know that we thenwouldn't be involved in such--they'd think others were capable of it, however, I think--and they are correct: They thinkColson would do anything, (Laughs) Well,anyway, have a little fun.DEAN:All right.PRESIDENT:And now, I will not talk to you again untilyou have something to report to me.DEAN:All right, sir. PRESIDENT:Uh, but I think it's very important that youhave these talks with, uh, our good friendKleindienst.DEAN:That'll be done. PRESIDENT:Give him that together thing, work it out.We have to work together on this thing.He's the man--I'd build him up--that he's the man who can make the difference. Alsopoint out to him that the fish they'rereally after--Tell him, look, for Christ sakes, Colson's got brass balls and so forth, butDEAN:A11 right.PRESIDENT:...I'd really, really be slugged hereis--let's forget this, remember, this wasnot done by the White House. This was doneby the Committee to Re-Elect, and Mitchell was the Chairman, correct?DEAN:That's correct. And that means that--FEBRUARY 28, 1973 FROM 9:12 TO 10:23 A.M.48PRESIDENT:So, and Mitchell--and Kleindienst owesMitchell everything. Mitchell wanted himfor Attorney General, he wanted him forDeputy, and here he is. And, uh, God damn it, Baker's got to realize this, and that ifhe allows this thing to get out he's goingto potentially ruin John Mitchell. He won't. I mean Mitchell won't allow himself to be ruined. He's too clever. He'll put on hisbig stone face act, but-I hope to Christ hedoes. The point is that, as you well know, uh, that's the fish they're after.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:But, but, the Committee is after somebody inthe White House. They, they, they'd like to get Haldeman or Colson, Ehrlichman. They,they've got--DEAN:Or possibly Dean. You know, who, you know,,who's, huh--anybody they can--I'm a small fish, but--PRESIDENT:Anybody at the White House they would, butin your case I think they realize you are the lawyer and they know you didn't have aGod damned thing to do with, with thecampaign.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:That's what I think. Well, we'll see.DEAN:All right sir.PRESIDENT:Good luck. DEAN:Thank you.