TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETINGOF MARCH 1, 1973 BETWEEN PRESIDENT NIXONAND JOHN DEAN FROM APPROXIMATELY 9:18 TO9:45 A.M. IN THE OVAL OFFICETRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETINGOF MARCH 1, 1973 BETWEEN PRESIDENT NIXONAND JOHN DEAN FROM APPROXIMATELY 9:18 TO9:45 A.M. IN THE OVAL OFFICEDEAN:Good morning Mr. President. PRESIDENT:Hi, how are you? Well, ah, I was going toask you about, ah got along did you seeKleindienst yet?DEAN:Ah, yes, I talked with him yesterday and heis going to be very clear in any conversations with Ervin and Baker thatfirst of all, ah, he couldn't begin to speakfor the White House. That his own position would be that the White House has a veryimportant principle to protect and that hewould assume that basically White House staff would be unavailable and it would have to be a very exceptional set ofcircumstances before the President would, orhe could even counsel the President, to consider --PRESIDENT:Un hum.DEAN:And he's going to leave it hanging way outthere. For any, early conversations which I think will put them on notice that, uh, noone is going to be marching right up.PRESIDENT:Do you think he's (unintelligible) propershape?DEAN:I think, I think he is. He also - I don'tknow if you've noted what Gray's positionwas up there yesterday or not?PRESIDENT: Yeah.DEAN:Giving the little store away, Dick, uh, --PRESIDENT: (Unintelligible) DEAN:I don't know. I was very surprised by that. PRESIDENT:Well what, you mean like saying --DEAN:Saying that the FBI records, as far as hewas concerned, were available to any Senator in the United States Senate.March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.2PRESIDENT:For Christ's sake, ah, he must be out of hismindDEAN:Well, that was my reaction. He also said that,uh, uh, if they're not satisfied with anymaterial that they're provided, he'll provideagents to come down and, and brief these people. So Dick, uh, Kleindienst last night -PRESIDENT:Oh, we've got to get to Gray because--DEAN:He called Gray last nightPRESIDENT:Why doesn't Kleindienst tell Gray about theHiss case, for Christ's sakes, that's thestandard thing. The FBI, good God, you'll,the Congress will ruin him, the Congress'll ruin him.DEAN:I think, I think Dick ought to be aware ofthe Hiss case in some detail as to theposition that the Government took on this.PRESIDENT:Well, this isn't, this isn't detail it's assimple as hell. The Government -and Hooveralways felt this - the Government never, itwouldn't allow Hoover even to talk to me. That was the Truman position -the truth -noagent of the Committee, ah, no, oh no no nocounsel of the Committee strictly was not allowed to have any contact with the FBI. They gave no information, they were going toprovide leads. They didn't cooperate with,in fact, they were working with Truman, to try to, ah, kill the caseDEAN:Un hum.PRESIDENT:That's the way it worked. Now God damn itthat's the line he's got to realize this is uh What was his point, too, about(unintelligible) the Republicans, it wasrather, it was suggested, he with reluctance, ah, ah, acceded to a White Houserequest to see the FBI files on Watergate.What the hell's he say? That he gives it to the congressmen for the White House?March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.3DEAN:That's kind of a curious position he's puthimself in yesterday.PRESIDENT:Yeah but that's what, what I would think that hewould say of course, I did. They were conductingtheir own investigation.DEAN:And that was exactly the time -PRESIDENT:Did he ever say that?DEAN:He did, he ultimately came out with that. Ah,they were pursuing him on whether or not, ah,the White House had revealed the FBI reportsto Segretti.PRESIDENT: Segretti. DEAN:That did not happen, I can assure you&#8211;PRESIDENT:Oh, of course not.DEAN:&#8211;without hesitation, hesitation, it did nothappen. Ah, no way.PRESIDENT:Have you told Ziegler what he's to say todayabout it?DEAN:I will -PRESIDENT:I take it Ziegler should say, very simply, heshould say, why of course, of course, the White House, the White House at the, the, uh,was conducting its own investigation. The FBIcooperated. A lot of information. Correct?DEAN:That's correct.PRESIDENT:But Jesus Christ if he gets down there andsays that any CongressmanDEAN: Well. PRESIDENT:Any Congressman he said?DEAN:Well, he said any member of the Senate.PRESIDENT:Of the Senate?DEAN:Of the Senate.PRESIDENT:Well then he goes for the House. He's, he'sout of his God damned mind. The House willinsist on the same rights.March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.4DEAN:That's exactly right.PRESIDENT:You'll have, you'll have Bella, Bella Abzug askingfor FBI stuff. What's he going to say? What in the hell is he going to say?DEAN:He's, he's put himself in a defenseless position.There's no doubt about it. Kleindienst is going to pull him up short on it, say that you didn't clear this position with the Attorney General -this isnot my position. As far as I'm willing to go is togive these people a summary of the investigation and if they contest the summary, they can sendtheir counsel down to look at the 302 reports,which are the -PRESIDENT:Why wasn't he prepared, John, in advancefor this, like a guy over this, Kleindienstshould have, like a guy over thisDEAN:Well, sir. PRESIDENT:talked it over with Gray. Jesus Christ, he,he can't be so -is he a little dumb?DEAN:Little bull-headed.PRESIDENT:Yeah but -what's he trying to -is he tryingto pander to these people too much, is thatit?DEAN:I think that's it. I think he's frightenedand, ah, ah a little bit bull-headed on this. I think he knows now that he's madea, that this was a, a bad slip on his on hispart. And, ah...PRESIDENT: Yeah.DEAN:he knows it this morning, and he's, if hegoes back up today he's going to have to say, "I didn't have authority to say that."PRESIDENT: Yeah.DEAN:Now that's what I -PRESIDENT:That what I should have said, that I wasreally talking to the Committee.March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.5(Continued)PRESIDENT:(moving noise) Well, anyway.DEAN:I PRESIDENT:Believe me, believe me the FBI cannot makeits -- the, the, uh ask Kleindienst if he isaware of the fact the FBI can't even be available to a Committee. It really can't. In fact, this is, this is stretching theson-of-a-bitch far more than we should, togive FBI raw data to a committee of the Congress of the United States. It's notbeen done.DEAN:The only situation that I can recall wherethere's been cooperation between the FBI and a committee with McClellan's investigativeCommittee, the FBI&#8211;PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:&#8211;the FBI from time to time on organizedcrime has been of assistance but it's notbeen overt&#8211;PRESIDENT:Sure. DEAN:&#8211;it's been more covert assistance&#8211;PRESIDENT:Yeah, exactly.DEAN:to preserve the principle. PRESIDENT:But in the case of the Hiss case.RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;that was a major uh a major confrontationand the, Truman said, hell no. The Justice Department said hell no -that was Clark atthat point. No sir. And, and, Hoover, whowas a friend of ours, who was all for what the Committee was doing, said no and there was no cooperation whatever. None,absolutely none. And, uh, (knocking noise)anyone else says to me are you in this country?DEAN:That's correct.March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.6PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) against a party now I thinkthat's a hell of a good column for somebodyto write or something.DEAN:I think that's --PRESIDENT:Let me ask you to do this, ah, write me amemorandum, and only for my eyes only, with regard to everything you know about Johnson's use of the FBI for espionage andthen go back - I was reading last night, youknow, what Kennedy did on the FBI in this field as you may remember that as a reallyDEAN:No I don't.PRESIDENT:You remember when he busted, ah, when RogerBlount tried to raise prices...DEAN:That's correct, I remember thatPRESIDENT:&#8211;and Kennedy sent FBI agents and BobbyKennedy did it at five o'clock in the morningDEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Got newsmen out of bed, et cetera.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Has Ziegler anything, are they aware ofthat? I mean they talk about harassingnewsmen. Have we ever done that? Have we ever had FBI agents go to a newsman to see what happened to their sources?DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:Where'd they get that story from? DEAN:The only thing that ever got distorted inthat regard was the Dan Schorr incidentwhere he alleged that a full field investigation was put on him and the like.PRESIDENT:Oh for Christ's sake.DEAN:It's all explainable too, uh.March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.7PRESIDENT:Yeah, well as a matter of fact, that wasonly, our of course, as you know, our(unintelligible) what, what was happening there - we were trying to get some very,from the FBI on a colder basis, a very -just some background on Schorr. And particularly to see what his connections were with, ah HanoiDEAN:Um humPRESIDENT:It was again part, part of the, part of thatpart - don't you see what I mean. The guysdon't know anything, they go on a full fieldinvestigation on the idea we're gonna hire him. That's ridiculous. Even though we hadn't said it, I mean, even though the boyssaid that was what we were doing. I guessthat was their cover. But the idea that they didn't go, they didn't go back for Schorr, though.DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:Your FBI agents&#8211; DEAN:Well, theyPRESIDENT:&#8211;In the Kennedy case, they got the, theeight, they got three reporters the hell out of bed and said we want to know where, what is the source of your, ah, what is thesource of your, uh, (brief pause) - it isyou can get it in a little book called, ah Kennedy's Thirteen Mistakes by MalcolmSmith, Jr. and, uh the chapter on this, on this policy. It's a fascinating little story, don't you forget it. But I want, you see, everything, Johnson and everything elsethat you have to sit down some time anddictate what you were telling me the other day...DEAN:I'll do that.March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.8PRESIDENT:in terms of what Johnson did, uh you know andwho, how the reverse of the coin thing and how that came in but how Johnson used it and so forth and so on. I just want to know what the hell we did. Now, uh and let me see what we cando with it.DEAN:Um hum. PRESIDENT:I mean think now. I'll, I'll let you know. DEAN:All right. PRESIDENT:I think the ah, I think the ah, this FBI thingthough it's, we have not used it, frankly atall. I mean that's the damnedest---DEAN:I spoke to Kleindienst yesterday. PRESIDENT:I hope Kleindienst is appalled, it's justunbelievable.DEAN:It, it's true. It is, as opposed&#8211; PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:&#8211;to what past administrations have done and wehave been so kind and so good, uh, as far asasking the FBI, in fact in some instances I thought we should have asked them to do things that, uh,---PRESIDENT:I know, I know DEAN:Uh they are quite capable of doing. Uh,Kleindienst also mentioned to me on this '68bugging of the---PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah. DEAN:That he'd had lunch with DeLoach yesterday... PRESIDENT:Who lied. DEAN:and, DeLoach, ah, ah, said that, ah said toDick, he said that there was no bugging of thePresident's plane per se, contrary to anything Hoover might have said and I said, "Well, Dick how do you read that.&#64258; And he said, "well, one of two things. One, De Loach knows that, ah, he'd be in serious trouble for a potentialfelony himself if he confessed it. Uh, or two,it didn't happen."March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.9PRESIDENT:Bull shit.DEAN:Uh, so that's, ah and I said "Well, how doyou read it," I said, ah, I said I would read it the man would be - very doubtful ifhe would confess himself into a felony, ah --PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:So it's gonna be tough to prove. Cause DeLoach is the one who probably knows unlesswe can find through some of the other sources&#8211;PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:&#8211;some of the agents who were involved. PRESIDENT:Well you know the point, I think, whatyou've got to do, John, is what I told Grayto do and he hasn't done. Is to get rightdown to the, uh, you've got to get at the little boys who did it.DEAN:That's right. That's exactly right.PRESIDENT:I told Gray, I said give 'em all liedetector tests. He hasn't done that yet. But, uh, I said I want, well, you know whodoes the bugging. Now just go back and seewho the hell's done it and put 'em, and make 'em all take a lie detector test. That'll shake that Bureau right to its roots.That's what I'd do.DEAN:Well, I think that the, the timing on thatof course would be the --PRESIDENT:Right after the hearings.DEAN:Right after the hearings, right after he'ssworn in, just go in and, and start breaking things wide open.PRESIDENT:That's right. That's right. And I think itwill shake looseDEAN:Um hum.March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.10PRESIDENT:Just sort of, just bring him in and sayalright Deke we're all taking one, how aboutyou?DEAN:Well, Don Kendall could be persuasive inthatPRESIDENT:Don Kendall can say if he doesn't take one,he gets canned.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Let's find out. (pause) I'd like you totell, you might give, uh Deke, uh, Kendall, a call you better, you better have a heart-to-heart talk with De Loach, that, ah, thatwe now have other evidence to corroborate it. We don't want De Loach to be in a position of having, ah, perjured himselfbecause it's going to be investigated. Justget that word out.DEAN:Um hum. That'll bring him up, get him alittle concerned.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) You could say I just don'tlike it when there's, ah, there's now evidence that, ah that he ah, he lied to theAttorney General. Just put it that way,and, ah, under those circumstances that, uh, that there's, uh, uh, there was a case, and uh, if a full field investigation is goingto be made shortly, uh, uh, and that we, wejust want him, just for - because we know he's a friend of De Locah's, tell De Loachhe'd better tell the truth or we'll get aperjury rap on him. Fair enough?DEAN:Um hum. It'll smoke him out if there'ssomething there.PRESIDENT:It may. It may or may not but at least lethim worry.DEAN:Let him worry.March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.11PRESIDENT:Let people worry a little, you know, that'sthe thing you know, Kendall's a blusterykind of a guy, I'd say now, it would just, as if we want you to know as a friend, don'twant to hurt anybody but that, uh, tell himthat the boys in the wood work are talkin'- the little boys down in the woodwork. Not going to tell you who but it's(unintelligible) but, uh right after Gray isconfirmed that, uh, that, ah, there's a very, very very big story here - Newsweekwith a couple of newspaper oh hot newspaperreporters on it and De Locah had better be told, he better not continue to lie, hurting himself about that bugging.DEAN:And there is a hot newspaper reporter, KevinPhillips is all over this and trying to get it out. I don't know how --PRESIDENT:See De Loach told Mitchell that, well, hewas ordered to do it and then didn't do it.That's what his story to Mitchell was. But that he did do some tapping of telephones,maybe Agnew's phone.DEAN:Yeah he's already, he's said, what he toldKleindienst yesterday again, he said that he did trace telephone calls made from Agnew'sairplane, we got the toll records of those&#8211;PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah. DEAN:and tracked those down as to where they weregoing.PRESIDENT: Yeah. DEAN:RESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:No doubt about it.March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.12PRESIDENT:That's our problem, isn't it?DEAN:Um hum.PRESIDENT:Well, just say that there are people in thewoodwork...DEAN:Well, that's --PRESIDENT:&#8211;calling, you know, he won't know whetherit's normal Bureau channels or not. That, uh, that there's, ah they're hot on it. Wejust want want to warn, ah just warn DeLoach that what he said to the Attorney General was not true. That, that we have,that there's - just say - I guess put itbluntly that what he said to the Attorney General was not true and that he better get his story straight with the Attorney Generalor, or, he'll have some problems. Why not,what do you think?DEAN:I think, I think it's an excellent idea tolet the man worry a little bit.PRESIDENT:Good God yes, and he'll worry all thoselittle pipsqueaks'll start talking.DEAN:Because he might also worry himself intotelling us a few more things that would behelpful to us on the other side of the coin.PRESIDENT:That's right, that's right. Now Kendall isuh, our friend, he's not gonna go lurkingaround, he's going to say that, look here,this is only for your own information. This call's never been made, (unintelligible)DEAN:Um hum.PRESIDENT:but I think it's important for you to knowthat this thing's crackin around and he said that he, ah, that if it was not done and hesaid uhMarch 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.13(continued)that, uh the investigation's going forward,thePRESIDENT:newspapers, they're hot on it. There's someboys down in the woodwork that are, that are,that are, that are cracking and that he'd better get back.DEAN:I think it's best to let De Locah worry alittle bit now, he's, he's friendly toKleindienst, he and Kleindienst have becomegreat friends.PRESIDENT:Oh, sure.DEAN:I, I wouldn't, uh&#8211; PRESIDENT:-- trust him -DEAN:&#8211;I wouldn't trust him at all. I've always--PRESIDENT:I never have trusted De Loach.DEAN: No?PRESIDENT:He's a politician.DEAN:Absolutely. He's out for De Loach first. Hewas playing to whoever --PRESIDENT:He was playing to Johnson for Christ's sakes,for years.DEAN:Whoever occupies this office and he thought --PRESIDENT:Yeah, he probably never thought I was gonnawin.DEAN:Um hum.PRESIDENT:He just played the wrong horse.(Unintelligible) I know. He's basically morea Democrat than a Republican, too, because he's in the Legion. I have known him foryears, not well, but I've never had any trustfor him. No, the only man we could ever relyon in the FBI was Hoover. The only other guythat really may know was Tolson. What's thematter with Tolson? He's sick.DEAN:That's right. I understand he is- isn't welland I've been trying to find out, uh, uh whatMarch 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.14(continued)link we might have to Tolson. Of course,Tolson'sDEAN:brother is with the White House HistoricalSociety. What his relationship with hisbrother is I don't know but I just, I'vealways --PRESIDENT:I have only, I, I, I could talk to himdirectly but I shouldn't I may sometime butno, you never know about a Tolson, whether'she's bitter, this or that, he might go out yakking but --DEAN:Well, at some point, a call on his generalhealth...PRESIDENT:that's easy DEAN:...might not hurt.PRESIDENT: Me?DEAN:Yes. If it's, you know, we could check thatout first and say that, you know, the surgery --PRESIDENT:Yeah. Why don't you get a check on him --how he's feeling and so forth.DEAN:Somebody's got to be seeing him.PRESIDENT:Check also when his birthday is, that'd beanother thing.DEAN: Right. PRESIDENT:Knew he'd been under the weather, wantedwish him well, he's a spunky old bastard.DEAN:He just might come forward with something,you never know.PRESIDENT:He knows, you know, Hoover was so, in a, youknow, that's the only man Hoover could talk to. They'd go home at night. They always had dinner together. I'm sure Hoover toldTolson every Goddamned thing he did 'causeHoover, Hoover blabbed a lot. (pause) That's whereMarch 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.15(continued)we got that Johnson thing, is that Bureauthe wayPRESIDENT:Bobby, the way we have Gray, Jesus Christ,he's done a hell of a bad wicket thing.DEAN:Tough wicket.PRESIDENT:Well the Bureau cannot survive, John, itcannot survive. Christ, if Truman was right. That's right.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:You're not turning it over to the committee,God Almighty. Yet the Bureau, the FederalBureau of Investigation, makes its filesavailable to the members of Congress, what the hell some of those Congressmen are, are damn near under Communist discipline.That's the reason Hoover would never do it.DEAN:Some of them are, are from the Mafia, nodoubt they're backed by the Mafia.PRESIDENT:Jesus Christ.DEAN:Ah.PRESIDENT:You could say only under the strictestregulations of a committee hearing, must bea committee authorized by the Congress ofthe United States, individual congressmen, of course, cannot get information I mean, that is not allowed, it must be authorizedby the House and Senate investigatingCommittee for a, for a legitimate legislative purpose and all that bull shit.And, then under, and then we will furnish asummary and you know that sort of thing but, golly all this raw files are the most unbelieveably crappy things I ever saw.DEAN:Oh, I know they are. The, the mostspectacular thing is his even saying I will make agents whoMarch 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.16(continued)did the investigation, who were on top of thisavailable.DEAN:Now these people are full of impressions,innuendo, uh, uh, their own feelings about the casePRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah.DEAN:Ah, whether they were getting cooperation from awitness, whether they weren'tPRESIDENT:(Noise)Uh huh DEAN:There was, there was a considerable amount ofbitching, for example, that I sat in oneverybody at the White House's interview. Now,I thought that there'd be no other course.PRESIDENT:Why, of course. Counsel for them, aren't you? DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Well, if they want an outside counsel, Jesus,the White House better, they're entitled to counsel.DEAN:They said that, uh, they said that the standardpolicy of the FBI was that no one was present when they interviewed somebody or they didn't interview 'em. I said well, if you want to interview these people, you're going to do it while I'm sitting here 'cause I think I'mentitled to know, for my own purposes, whetherthey'rePRESIDENT:You're conducting your investigation for thePresident.DEAN:That's right. That's right. PRESIDENT: Right?DEAN:That's correct.PRESIDENT:That's the line that that Gray should takeyou're conducting an investigation, you didn't, (pause) well anyway, it's one of those things that's gonna go on and on and on and on. I think, Gray has demonstrated in his first day'shearing, he's, he's got a, well, you've gottaadmit it's a, it's a weakness of him and the reason I was very hesitantMarch 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.17(continued)about appointing him. There's too muchbravado there.PRESIDENT:He's a big, strong Navy guy, you know,everything's great, boy let's go, ya, ya, ya.A guy that has that much outward self-confidence doesn't have much inwardself-confidence. That's what I(unintelligible)DEAN:Interesting observation.PRESIDENT:It's like a poker player, you know, the guythat's got the cards, a good poker player younever know either way, he's got the cards, or whether he doesn't, Christ, you'll never know,never know. But he doesn't have them, he's alittle loud, a little loud. He said, well,you know, he talks too much but the good pokerplayer he's got the cards.DEAN:I think Gray'll be all right once we get himthrough these hearings, ah, wePRESIDENT:Yah, he is loyal.DEAN:No doubt about that. PRESIDENT:He's a decent man. He'll try but we're goingto shake that Goddamned FBI up just likeSchlesinger's shaking up the other. Now theother thing too is this that we've got toremember if Gray does pander to the Senate toomuch. We may have to face the fact sometimethat he'll have to go. You know what I mean, I have no --DEAN:Sure.PRESIDENT:I have no compunctions about that, after allhe's frightened and all that but that wouldbe, that would indicate that we were at leastgoing to put him on that FBI was not, was notbeing adequately managed, you see my point?DEAN:That's right. It would have to be that way,otherwise, you're jeopardizing one of the institutions of government that, uh - but Idon't see that, I don't see Gray, uh&#8211;March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.18PRESIDENT:No.DEAN:&#8211;being in that position and I think that, uh,he wants to be confirmed very badly, he wantsto appear&#8211;PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:&#8211;that he has nothing to hide about theWatergatePRESIDENT:Right. That's good too. It's good for him tonot want to hide anything because I don't wanthim to be in a position.DEAN:He's proud of his Watergate investigation. uh(laughs)PRESIDENT:Hmm?DEAN:I said he's proud of his investigation and,uh, despite the fact he caused us some kind ofincredible grief.PRESIDENT:Yup. (pause) I only talked to Gray once sincehe was confirmed, I mean since we sent hisname down there. I called him up on ahijacking case -- to congratulate the FBI. AsI used to call Hoover on such things. Then he raised the point on Watergate with me, Ididn't want to have anything about it well theWhite House people were, this was right at thevery beginning, were -- didn't recognize theseriousness ofDEAN:I remember the sequence then. I remember Graytellin' me that (P & D talking at same time)PRESIDENT:I got a hold of Ehrlichman I said what thehell is this all about? Ehrlichman though(unintelligible)DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:And I said well you talk to Gray.DEAN:And, uh, well, what had happened is we hadbeen, we had been leaning on Gray to stay ontop of the investigation. And Pat was outmaking a lot of speeches and we kept telling him, Pat, you ought to sit on top of thisinvestigation and keep an eye on it.March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.19PRESIDENT:Yup.DEAN:But he was new in the chair over there andthose were, you know, that was a strangeoffice to him, we feltPRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah. Interesting, interesting. Well,we should - nobody's perfect. You know Hooverwas the guy, and, uh even at the later times,I mean, sure, there was senility andeverything, the little stuff, say he did talktoo much, he wasn't perfect, uh - Damn it, buthe ran a tight ship Goddamn it, that's the wayand the FBI did not leak and it cannot leak, I mean, frankly, I admire that it didn't leak onJohnson and Bobby Kennedy, they shouldn't.DEAN:That's right. Well when he said, you know, hesaid jump, everybody jumped. They might nothave liked jumping but they sure did jump.PRESIDENT:Ah yes, that's good, you canDEAN:I think Pat will, I think Pat willPRESIDENT:I just want to be sure that Gray was aware of,uh, that that that those two things, that his testimony is, uh, cleared up, that thatbusiness about the --DEAN:I'll get them both straightened out today andI'll get you a --PRESIDENT:Well, you ah, let's see. You know, uh thisstuff goes to the private staff. Go over tothe bedroom and, ah, there's a book in the, ah, on that ah desk over there, a little bookabout so thick, you bring it over here to meand (unintelligible) find this in that book,I'll ah get that section over to you. Readthe Hiss case, the first chapter of SixCrises. I think you'll find it very, veryinteresting.DEAN:The Attorney General just tried to call you.I have no idea what the subject -- the subject's unknown. I'll get a hold of Dickand find out what it is.March 1, 19739:18 &#338; 9:45 a.m.20PRESIDENT:Oh, I've got it on the subject. Tell himI'm in a meetingDEAN:I Will. PRESIDENT:with Golda Meir at the moment and ah I'dhave to step out if he'd just give us anidea what the subject is, if it's urgent, I can come out.DEAN:Okay.PRESIDENT:Put it that way, otherwise, I(unintelligible)DEAN:Alright.PRESIDENT:Just that. But tell him if it isDEAN:I would suspect it's on the Segretti thing,if he's pulled him up short and wants you to know it.PRESIDENT:Alright. Just, just tell him that I willcall him, but if it's urgent, tell him I'll have to step out of a meeting. But I will call him.DEAN:Good.PRESIDENT:I will return the call. DEAN:Good.PRESIDENT:that I'm in a meeting with Mrs. Meir, justsay that.DEAN:Shall be done. PRESIDENT:And then let me know.(Door shuts -voice in background)