TRANSCRIPT -- March 8, 1973 DEAN: Good morning. (Inaudible) PRESIDENT: I was curious, over the big play that uh Segrettithing got in the Post and the attention. DEAN: It's incredible. PRESIDENT: That wasn't a new story, is it?  DEAN: No it is not a new story. The only thing new isthat it has been confirmed by Gray in the material he submitted to the record and I (inaudible) PRESIDENT: (inaudible) Said that (inaudible) White House(inaudible) information, but it missed the point that what he was talking about was that bringsHaldeman into it. DEAN: That's clear we're going over that with Ron rightnow. Ron did in it, we we just went over the briefing. He did in transferance say that this is more innuendo, character assasination which it indeed again is. And the point, the point is that Dwight Chapin never hired anybody to operate a sabotage, espionage situation. The fact is that hehired somebody to go out and look (inaudible) theopponents advancing operation. I, he, if this guy saw a chance to be a Dick Tuck type guy and and throw something into their schedule that would screw it up and that was the extent of it and Dwight didn't have any involvement in the day to day dealings with this man. So we're working on how to get back and narrow a a story that's way outof hand. I think we can I think we can handle thatuh. PRESIDENT: How about Kleindienst (inaudible)  DEAN: On Pat Gray?  PRESIDENT: Is Gray doing anything  DEAN: Pat's uh, Pat is going to not honor uh theinnuendo stories in the Post this morning. I uh, I talked to. PRESIDENT: (inaudible) DEAN: (Pause], Pat's uh, Pat has closed the store.There's no doubt about that. He did turn around the hearings yesterday. PRESIDENT: Have you done anything about - (inaudible).  DEAN: Yes sir  PRESIDENT: The points that I made (inaudible)2 DEAN: Yes Sir, Yes Sir, I did. I got questions inyesterday and hopefully we'll get some more intoday and if not when he goes back on thesecond round we'll have them in. Thequestion[s] we got in yesterday are questionsof course that are not reported are the uh investigation by the Bureau of the buggingincident that turned up at the DemocraticNational Committee in one of their telephones. PRESIDENT: What are they talking about DEAN: Well... PRESIDENT: (Inaudible) DEAN: Well that's what Gray made the point is thatone PRESIDENT: Did say anything useful? DEAN: Not a word. Not a word. That's the way itis. That was in the hearings yesterday uh uhbut they just won't pick that up. Now the setof questions I've developed are not the kindthe press can ignore. PRESIDENT: Well they can't ignore [inaudible]. You'vegot the one on the bugging (inaudible) DEAN: That's right. I well I have a whole series ofquestions that uh PRESIDENT: But be sure that you get the one in on theplane DEAN: Absolutely, absolutely. And Hruska is isprogrammed to handle that. I was told PRESIDENT: (inaudible)  DEAN: That Gurney, Gurney was not uh, if it got toohot, Gurney might say" well I got these fromthe White House," whereas Hruska would neversay that. So that is in the works, and uhit'll come up today or wben they go back andreturn PRESIDENT: Alright. (inaudible) I understand theproblem. (inaudible) (Inaudible)
