TRANSCRIPT PREPARED BY THE IMPEACHMENTINQUIRY STAFF FOR THE HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING AMONGTHE PRESIDENT, JOHN DEAN AND H.R. HALDEMANON MARCH 13, 1973, FROM 12:42 TO 2:00 P.M.July 8, 1974TRANSCRIPT PREPARED BY THE IMPEACHMENTINQUIRY STAFF FOR THE HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING AMONG THE PRESIDENT, JOHN DEAN AND H.R. HALDEMANON MARCH 13, 1973, FROM 12:42 TO 2:00 P.M.*HALDEMAN:Say, did you raise the question with thePresident on, on, uh, Colson as aconsultant?DEAN:No, I didn't. HALDEMAN:Was that somebody [unintelligible]?DEAN:It was -the thought was --PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] DEAN:well [unintelligible] it's a consultantwithout doing any consulting -Yeah.HALDEMAN:He wanted it [unintelligible] DEAN:He wants it for continued protection on,uh--HALDEMAN:Solely for the purposes of, of executiveprivilege protection. So that--DEAN:One of those things that's kept down in thepersonnel office, and nothing's done on it._______________*The quotation marks used in this transcriptare for convenience and do not indicateverbatim quotation by the speaker.PRESIDENT:What happens to Chapin?DEAN:Well, Chapin dosen&#8482;t have quite the sameproblems appearing that Colson will.HALDEMAN:Yeah but -you have the same, you, you havethe same problems as Chapin appearing versusColson.PRESIDENT:U411, can't -That would be such an obviousfraud to have both of them as consultants,that that won't work. I think he's right. Uh, you'd have to leave Chapin --HALDEMAN:Well, you can't make Chapin a consultant, I-we've already said he's not,PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Yeah.HALDEMAN:Icause we wanted the separation. Thequestion is, if he -are, are you then, going to let As of now, the way they have interpreted executive privilege, is that youare not going to let Chapin testify,PRESIDENT:Anybody. HALDEMAN:because it applies to executive privilegebutPRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]HALDFJW:by the former people in relation to matterswhile they were here.-2-DEAN:And the problem area is that Chuck --HALDEMAN:That same thing would apply to Colson. DEAN:Well, yes, if Chuck were truly going to bedoing nothing from the, this day on.HALDEMAN:That's right. He's concerned about whathe's doing. Colson's concerned about what he's doing from now on, and he would applythe consulting thing to what, to if he werecalled regarding actions taken nowDEAN:That's right. HALDEMAN:that relate to Watergate actions.DEAN:Probably 'cause,because [unintelligible] hewill be out stirring up, you know, uh, counter-news attacks and things of thisnature and --PRESIDENT:Jesus Christ. Is he supposed to do that andbe consulting with the President on it?DEAN:No, no. But he's consulting, uh, it's a,you know, wide open consultantship. Itdoesn't mean he consults with you.HALDEMAN:Your idea was just to put this in thedrawer, in case [unintelligible]DEAN:Put it in the drawer, and then-3-PRESIDENT:Not decide it.HALDEMAN:Uh, it would be a consultant without pay. DEAN:I'd even tell Chuck that, uh, that, well,just tell Chuck something,HALDEMAN:Better not tell Chuck. Chuck's[unintelligible]DEAN:is, there is something in the drawer. Andjust say we --PRESIDENT:There is no reason to tell Chuck is there?Why -I would, I would tell him that, uh, for -he's not to say anything, frankly.HALDEMAN:The point would be to date it back lastSaturday, so it, it's continuous.DEAN:Continuous.PRESIDENT:That, that is his consultant fee stopped,for the present time, but he's still available for purposes of consulting on various problems and the like.DEAN:Right.PRESIDENT:Unpaid consultant? DEAN:Yes.[Laughter]HALDEMAN:We have some of those.PRESIDENT:Good ones.-4-HALDEMAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Well, uh -What are the latest developmentsBob should get something on?DEAN:Yeah. Uh -PRESIDENT:Before going into that uh, uh, I waswondering on that, on that, [unintelligible] jackassery about some kid who was infiltrating peace groups, which of course isperfectly proper. Christ, I hope they were. I would hope, I would expect we were heavily infiltrated that way, too.DEAN:The only, the only problem there, Mr.President, is that --PRESIDENT:Did he get paid?DEAN:Uh, he was paid, uh --PRESIDENT:By check? DEAN:Uh, he was paid by personal check of anotherperson over there who, in turn, was takingit out of expense money. Uh, when theultimate source of the money -as best, as quickly as we've been able to trace it -was pre-April 7th money. Uh, there, there couldbe some potential embarrassment for KenReitz, uh, along the way.PRESIDENT:Oh. Working for him.-5-DEAN:So he is -But I, I, I think it's a confinedsituation. Obviously it's something that's going to come up with the Ervin hearings, but, uh, it's not, not another newLiddy-Hunt, uh, operation.PRESIDENT:Well, it's such a shit-ass way to think. DEAN:Oh, it is.PRESIDENT:For Christ sakeDEAN:It is. PRESIDENT:I mean, uh, what, what happened to the kid?Did he just, uh, decide to be a hero?DEAN:That's right. He apparently chatted aboutit around school, and the word got out, and he got confronted with it and he knew he'dchatted about it, so there he was. It's,uh, absurd; it really is. He didn't do anything illegal. Uh-PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible].Apparently you haven't beenable to do anything on myDEAN:But I have, sir -- PRESIDENT:project of take the offensive DEAN:No, to the contrary.-6-PRESIDENT:based on Sullivan.DEAN:No, uh - PRESIDENT:Did you kick a few butts around? DEAN:Uh, I have all of the information that wehave finished -that we've collected. Thereis some there, and, uh, I've turned it over to Baroody. Baroody is having a speechdrafted for Barry Goldwater. And there'senough material there to make a rather sensational speech just by: ""Why in the hell isn't somebody looking into whathappened to President Nixon when, during hiscampaign look at these events. How do you explain these? Where are the answers tothese questions?'" Uh, there's enough of athread, I've--PRESIDENT:Double standard. DEAN:Yeah, and I've, I've pulled all theinformation--PRESIDENT:Also, the Senator then should also presentit to the, uh, to the Ervin Committee and demand that that be included.DEAN:A letter -PRESIDENT:He Is a Senator,-7-DEAN:What I'm working on nowPRESIDENT:a senator DEAN:is a letter to Senator Ervin saying, "Thishas come to my attention, and why shouldn't,uh, why shouldn't this be a part of theinquiry?"" And he can spring out of '64 and then quickly to '72. And, and we've got apretty good speech, uh, Baroody tells me, ifwe can get out our material.PRESIDENT:Good. DEAN:So it's in the mill.HALDEMAN:Good. [Unintelligible] friends have you got[unintelligible]DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Thank God.HANDEMAN:Why has there never been [unintelligible]come up and did it before?PRESIDENT:Just wasn't enough stuff. They couldn't getanybody to pay any attention. For example,the investigations were supposed to have been taken for the thirty-four million-odd contributed to McGovern in small Oh Christ,there's a lot of hanky-panky in there, andthe records used on it are just too bad to find out anything.-8-DEAN:That's one of the problems that he has--PRESIDENT:That's the problem, and can that be anissue?DEAN:That will be an issue. That we have -Thereis a crew working that, also.PRESIDENT:Do you need any IRS [unintelligible] stuff?DEAN:Uh Not at the --WAITER:Would you care for some coffee? DEAN:No, thank you, I'm fine. Uh, there is noneed at this hour for anything from IRS, andwe have a couple of sources over there thatI can go to. I don't have to fool around with Johnnie Walters or anybody, we can getright in and get what we need.PRESIDENT:Talk to Elliot Gompers [phonetic]. DEAN:I've, I've been preparing the, uh, theanswers for the briefing book and I justraised this with Ron, uh. It's myestimation, for what it's worth, that probably this week will draw more Watergate questions than any other week you're likelyto see, uh, given the Gray hearings, the newrevelations about they're not new, but they're now substantiated -about Kalmbachand Chapin that have been in the press.-9-PRESIDENT:To the effect of what? They--DEAN:That Chapin directed Kalmbach to paySegretti, the alleged saboteur, somewhere between thirty-five and forty thousanddollars. Uh, there is an awful lot of thatout in the press now.PRESIDENT:YeahDEAN:There is also the question of Deanappearing, not appearing -Dean's role.. There was more stories in the Post this morning that are absolutely inaccurate, Uh,about my turning information over to theRe-election Committee for uh, uh -some woman over there, Mrs. Hoback, signed anaffidavit, gave it to Birch Bayh, said thatI was, uh, brought into Mardian's, Bob Mardian's office within forty-eight hours after a private interview I had with theBureau, and confronted with it. How didthey know that? Well, it came from internal sources over there, is how they knew itPRESIDENT:From what?DEAN:Internal sources -this girl had told othersthat she was doing this, and they just told, uh, just quickly filled her to the top whenshe was out on her own.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible]-10-DEAN:She did. Said we had two or three of those.PRESIDENT:Why did she do that? Was she mad? DEAN:She's a registered Democrat. PRESIDENT:Why did we take her in?DEAN:I'll -To this day, I do not understand whatshe was doing. And she was --PRESIDENT:Who was she working for?DEAN:She worked in Stans' operation.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] that was a bright move. DEAN:it wasn't a good move. He had -in fact,that was one of our problems, was the, uh,the little pocket of women that worked forMaury Stans. No doubt about it, that was things would have sailed a lot smootherwithout that pack. Not that they hadanything that was devastating.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Well, now, with regard to thequestions, and so forth, sure, uh, it wouldbe my opinion, though, not to, not to dodgeit just because there are going to be questions.DEAN:Well, it's going to be -You're probablygoing to get more-11-questions this week. And the toughquestions. And some of them don't have easy answers. For example, did Haldeman knowthat, uh, there was a Don Segretti outthere? That question is, is likely.PRESIDENT:Did he? I don't know.DEAN:He had, he had knowledge that there wassomebody in the field doing prankster-type activities.PRESIDENT:Uh huh.DEAN:Uh --PRESIDENT:So I don't know that. [Unintelligible] DEAN:So at this -I mean that's the other thing --PRESIDENT:Yes, but what about, what about my taking,uh, basically, just trying to have to fight this thing at one time. I can fight it later, but it's not going to get any better.I don't think that the way to get into this,did he know or not, I think the thing to say "This is a matter being considered by a committee and I'm not going to comment uponit while it's being -I don't want to getinto the business of taking each charge that comes up in the Committee and com menting onit. It is being considered by, and it'sbeing investigated. I'm not going to comment on it.&#64258;-12-DEAN:Well, that's, that's exactly the way Idrafted these. I have kept them general answers.PRESIDENT:And I just cut them off. No. If I startgetting, I think, John, if I start breakingdawn &#338;it&#8482;s like on the Court thing -the Watergate stuff, I'm not going to comment onit. I know all of these questions. "'I amnot going to comment on that. That's a matter for the Committee to determine."' Then, I'll repeat the fact that 1, as far asthe Watergate matter is concerned, there wasno knowledge there, I am not going to comment on anything else. Let the Committeefind out. What would you say? You don'tagree?DEAN:Well, uh, the bottom line, on, on a draftthat &#338;before I came over for [laughs] lunch-was, well, if you have nothing to hide, Mr.President, here at the White House, why aren't you willing to spread on the record everything you know about it? Why doesn'tthe Dean Report be made public? Why doesn'teveryone come out? Why does Ziegler stand out there and bob and weave, and no-comment?That's, that's the bottom line.PRESIDENT:Well, all right. What do you say to that? DEAN:Well ---13-PRESIDENT:You -we are furnishing information. We willdo something.DEAN:I think we -well, of course, we have -- PRESIDENT:We have cooperated.DEAN:We have cooperated with the FBI in theinvestigation of the Watergate.PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:We will cooperate with the investigation of,a proper investigation by the Senate.PRESIDENT:Right. We will make statements. DEAN:And, indeed, we have nothing to hide.PRESIDENT:We have furnished information; we havenothing to hide. So we have [unintelligible] have to handle it.DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:What else can we do, really. I mean, wecan't -you see, I can&#8482;t be in the position of basically hunkering down because we got alot of tough questions on Watergate, and notgo outDEAN:True.-14-PRESIDENT:and, and talk on other issues becausethey're going to be, they're embarrassing. It's not going to get better. It's going to get worse. Do you agree?DEAN:That's--I would agree. I think it's cyclicsomewhat. I think after the Gray thing takes one course one way or the other,there'll be a dead period of news onWatergate until the Ervin hearings start again.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:Uh, this has obviously sparked the newsagain.PRESIDENT:Well, let me just, just run over thequestions again. Now, isn't it best, "Whatabout Mr. Haldeman, Mr. Segretti, and so forth." "That's a matter which is being considered by a Senate committee; I'm notgoing to comment on it." That's true, isn'tit?DEAN:That's correct. That's specifically PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]DEAN:spelled out in their resolution that theywill--PRESIDENT:I am not going to comment on that one[unintelligible] being considered by acommittee. [Unintelligible] as I have already indicated. Uh, I am just not going to comment on it. You already indicated myviews on the Watergate thing.-15-DEAN:Did Mr. Chapin's departure have something todo with his involvement with Segretti?PRESIDENT:No. The answer's "No". And, uh, ""But whatabout, uh, what about Mr. Dean?&#64258; ]Myposition is the same: "We going to be -Wewere We've been cooperative. We cooperated with the Justice Department, with the FBIcompletely -in trying to, in furnishinginformation that was relevant in this matter. We will cooperate with the Committee under the rules that I have laidout in my st--my statement on executiveprivilege.&#64258; Period. Now what else? Let's see.DEAN:Well, then, you'll get a barrage ofquestions probably on, will you supply, will Mr. Haldeman and Mr. Ehrlichman and Mr. Dean go up to the Committee and testify?PRESIDENT:No. Absolutely not.DEAN:Mr. Colson. PRESIDENT:No. No. DEAN:I think that's -PRESIDENT:No. Absolutely not. I No. It isn't aquestion of, the question is notunder what, uh, or somebody, or Ziegler, orsomebody had said that, uh, that we, we inour executive privilege statement it was interpreted as-16-being that we would not furnish information.Oh, well. We said we will furnish information, but we're not going to publicly testify. That's the position. But, willDean, and all the rest, will they furnish,you'll furnish information, won't you?DEAN:Yes. Indeed I will.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Sure.DEAN:Well, I think possibly by the time-- PRESIDENT:See, that's what I do. My feeling, John, isthat I better hit it now, frankly, as toughas it is, and, uh, rather than just let itbuild up to where we, we're afraid of these questions and everybody and so forth, andlet Ziegler get out there and bob and weavearound. I know the easier thing is just to bug out, but I'd rather hit it now.DEAN:You're right. I was afraid for the sake ofdebate, 'cause I was having reservations.And, uh,PRESIDENT:I think so. DEAN:uh, it is a, it, it's a bullet-biter and youjust got to do it, and, because they're notgoing to go away, the questions. Now the other thing that we talked about in-17-the past, and I, I still have the sameproblem, is to have sort of a "Well, here it all is" approach. Uh, if we do that -PRESIDENT:And let it all hang out.DEAN:And let it all hang out, uh,PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:uh, let's say with the Segretti situation -PRESIDENT:I guess, I guess if we were going to dothat, we have passed that point.DEAN:We have passed that point plus the fact,they're not going to believe the truth.That's the incredible thing.PRESIDENT:They won't believe the truth, they don'teven believe when they convicted sevenpeople.DEAN:That's right. They will continually try tosay that there is [unintelligible]PRESIDENT:They'll say, "Haldeman did it." And thenthey'll say I did it.DEAN:That's right.-18-PRESIDENT:I don't think they'll get to that point.They might question his political savvy, but not mine. Not on a matter like that.DEAN:[Laughs]. No. Well, the thing on Sullivanwhich I have. Sullivan, uh, who as I toldyou, and, have been prompting him and I said, "Bill, I would like, for my own use,to have a list of some of the horribles thatyou're aware of."" Well, he hasn't responded back to me, but he sent me a not e yesterday saying that, ""John, I am willing at anytime to testify to what I know if you wantme to."' What he has, as we already know, has got a certain degree of, uh -it's a,it's a dynamite situation what he's gotalready the '68 bugging, the surveillance that Goldwater [unintelligible]PRESIDENT:It's not -we [unintelligible] on the '68bugging, that it was ordered, but he doesn'tknow whether it was carried out.DEAN:That's right. Uh PRESIDENT:But at least he will say thatDEAN:Yes.PRESIDENT:Tell them, for example, I mean I DEAN:I would think --PRESIDENT:That kind of thing.DEAN:Well, I've never talked to Bill about thisso it must be ---19-I've never really gone into detail, becausehe's always been very up close about it, but he is-now getting to the point if, if~,lwye wanted him to do this, someone -and I don'tthink the White House should do it -shouldsit down with him and really take him over cross-examination of what he does know and,and how strong it is, what he can, cansubstantiate.PRESIDENT:John, who the hell could do it if you don't? DEAN:Well, that's, that's probably -there's noone. That's the, uh --PRESIDENT:That's the problem. DEAN:That's the problem. Now, the other thingis, if we were going to use a tactic likethis: Let's say in the Gray hearingsPRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] DEAN:where everything is cast that, that we're,we're, that we're the political people andthey're not -that Hoover was above reproach, which is just not accurate.PRESIDENT:Bull shit. Bull shit.DEAN:Total bull shit. The, uh, the person whocould, would destroy 1 Hoover's Image is going to be this man, Bill Sullivan. Uh,that's what's at stake there. Also, it'sgoing to tarnish quite severely, uh---20-PRESIDENT:Some of the FBI.DEAN:some of the FBI. And a former President. PRESIDENT:Fine. DEAN:Uh, he's going to lay it out, and he, it'sjust all hell is going to break loose oncehe does it. It's going to change the atmosphere of the Gray hearings. It's goingto change the whole atmosphere of theWatergate hearings.PRESIDENT:Not much. DEAN:Now the riskPRESIDENT:How will it change, John?DEAN:How will it change? Because it'll put themin context that, that, uh, a governmentinstitute was used in the past for the mostflagrant political purposes.PRESIDENT:Hoow does that help us? DEAN:How does it help us?PRESIDENT:I'm being, I'm just being --DEAN:Yeah, I, I appreciate what you are doing. PRESIDENT:Red herring. Is that what you mean?-21-DEAN:Yes. It's a, it's a red herring. It's whatthe public already believes. It&#8482;s just that people would just, I would say react, that, oh Christ, more of that stuff. Uh, they'reall, you know, they're all bad down there.Because it's a one way street right now --PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]DEAN:Pardon.PRESIDENT:Do you think the press would use it? Theymay not play it.DEAN:It'd be difficult not to. Uh, it'd bedifficult not to.PRESIDENT:Why is it that Sullivan'd be willing to dothis?DEAN:I think the, the quid pro quo with Sullivanis that he wants someday back in the Bureau very badly.PRESIDENT:That's easy.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Do you think after he did this to the Bureauthat they'd want him back? "They,&#64258; if there is a ''they.''DEAN:Uh, probably not. But I think that, uh, hecould also possibly do -What, what Bill Sullivan's desire in life-22-is, is to set up a national, or domesticnational security intelligence system, a plan, a program. He says we're deficient. Uh, we've never been ef--, efficient, sinceHoover lost his guts several years ago. Ifyou recall, he and Tom Huston worked an it. Uh, Tom Huston had your instruction to goout and do it. Then the whole thing justcrumbled.PRESIDENT:Do you think Hoover would have cooperated? DEAN:That's all Sullivan really wants. Even ifwe just put him off studying it for a coupleof years, we could put him out in the CIA or some place else where he felt --PRESIDENT:Put him there; we'll do it.DEAN:I think that's what the answer is. I'venever really--PRESIDENT:No problem with Sullivan. We'll put him -Imean, he's a valuable man. Uh, now, wouldthe FBI then turn on him, piss on him?DEAN:There would be some effort at that. That'sright, they would say he's disgruntled. Hewas canned by Hoover. He is angry, he'scoming back. But that would kind of, I would think a lot of that would be lost inthe, uh, in the shuffle of what he is layingout. I don't know if he's given me his best yet. I don't know if he's got more-23-ammunition than [unintelligible] he hasalready told me. Those were just a couple off-the-cuff remarks.PRESIDENT:And that's why you said that -Why do youthink he is now telling you this? Why is hedoing this now?DEAN:Well, the way it came out is, when I, whenthe Time Magazine article broke on the factthat it charged that the White House had directed that newsmen and White House staff people be, uh, subject to some sort ofsurveillance for national security reasons,I called, in tracking down what had happened, I called Sullivan and I said,""Bill, you'd better come over and talk tome about that and tell me what you know."" I was calling-him to really determine if he was a leak. That&#8482;s one of the reasons. Iwas curious to know where this might havecome from because he was the operative man at the Bureau at the time. He&#8482;s the one who did it. Uh, he would not, you know, he cameover and he was shocked and, uh, distraught,and, and the like [unintelligible) his own, uh, uh, his own [unintelligible] [laughs]frankly, uh, and then, and after goingthrough his explanation of all what had happened, he started volunteering this other-24-thing. He said, "John, what, this is theonly thing I can think of during this Administration that has any taint of political use but it doesn't really botherme 'cause it was a national securitypurpose. These people worked --there was sensitive material that was getting out, wasgetting out to reporters."PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] what we ordered? DEAN:That's right PRESIDENT:Of course, [unintelligible] the stuff wasinvolved in the God damned Vietnam War.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:That's what it was.NOTE:At this point, a portion of the discussionhas been deleted.DEAN:But he said, "John, what does bother me isthat you all have been portrayed aspolitically using&#352;&#64257;PRESIDENT:And we never did. DEAN:And we never have. He said the EisenhowerAdministration didn't either. The only-25-PRESIDENT:Never.DEAN:times that he can recall that there has beena real political use has been during Democratic tenure. I said, "For example,Bill, what are you talking about?"' Then hetold me this example of, of, uh, the Walter Jenkins affair, when DeLoachPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:and, and Fortas, and -- PRESIDENT and DEAN:[Unintelligible]PRESIDENT:The Kennedys, the Kennedys used it, let mesay, politically on that steel thing.DEAN:That's rightPRESIDENT:That was not, that was not a nationalsecurity, was it?DEAN:No. Now I asked, uh, I asked somebody aboutthat and they told me that what happenedthere is that, uh they were being defensiveof Kennedy, and so that the person who would defend Kennedy necessarily -was saying that Kennedy had given Hoover orders and Hoover,being typical in his response, tried to getit yesterday as far as the answer-26-for the President. And that's why he sentpeople out in the middle of the night and the blame really fell on Hoover. And, and this might be [unintelligible]-over therethough, who knows.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]DEAN:Well, that's right.PRESIDENT:It's still wrong. DEAN:That&#8482;s right. Sure. PRESIDENT:Good God. Can you imagine if somebody-steel company that had raised hell about,uh, or an automobile company, about, something, silly thing, Ruckelshaus does,and we send FBI agents out to arrest? JesusChrist, now. Does he know about the bugging of Martin Luther King?DEAN:Yep.PRESIDENT:I wonder if he'd tell that, that would begood.DEAN:I think he would tell everything he knows. PRESIDENT:You do?DEAN:Uh huh. That's why I'm saying he is, he is,he is a trem-he's a bomb. Uh, now the fact is ---27-PRESIDENT:You really have to keep telling --DEAN:well, if that's, that's the, the realproblem is, how it's structured, how can it be done. Uh, he sent me this note and Icalled up and I said, ""Bill, I appreciategetting that note very much."' I said, ''It takes a lot of guts to send a note like thatto me."" And he said I said, "It's kind of apleasure to see a man stand up, blowing a little smoke up him and the like." Uh, he said, "Well, John, I mean it. I amperfectly willing to do anything you want.If you want me to go up and testify, I will." I said, "Well, how much, you havejust given me some tidbits that you, in ourconversation and I would really like to again repeat: Can you put together what you do know; just for your own use right now,just put it together on a pad, go throughall your recollections; and then also tell me how you can substantiate it, and, what kind of cross-examination you might besubject to on it if you did testify." So heis doing that. Now, the question I've, I've had is, how in the world can we programsomething like this? The, wa--I, I just havea feeling that it would be bad for one Bill Sullivan to quietly appear up on, uh, on some Senator's doorstep, and say, "I've gotsome information you ought to have." "Well,where did you get-28-it? Where -why are you up here?" "The WhiteHouse sent me." That would be bad. The other thing is, maybe this information could be brought to the attention of the WhiteHouse, and the White House could say to the,uh, to, uh, Eastland, "I think you ought to call an executive session and hear histestimony. This is quite troublesome, theinformation that has been presented to us. It's so troublesome, we can't hold it here and hope to, uh, and rest comfortable.&#64258;PRESIDENT:Why, why on the other hand doesn't he justpresent it to Eastland? I mean, uh -Why executive session? That doesn't serve --DEAN:Well it would, one, because you're trying-The first approach would be not to destroy the Bureau, not to tarnish the name. It's going to leak out of there, though, quiteobviously. If it doesn't, we'd make sure itdid. Uh [coughs] If, if, uh, Sullivan went up to Eastland cold and just said, or Hruska, I would think they would say, "Go onback down to the Department of Justice whereyou work, and let's not start all this."PRESIDENT:Suppose another thing, Patrick Cray says toeither Eastland or to, or to Hruska oranybody on that Committee Who is the tiger on the Committee on our side, on the Committee, the Judiciary Committee?-29-DEAN:Cook's --PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] DEAN:Gurney, Gurney has been good. Gurney wasgood during the ITT hearings, and he -he'llstudy, he'll get prepared. Uh --PRESIDENT:But, would he go after the Bureau?[Unintelligible]DEAN:They're not going after the Bureau. Whatthey are doing is, they're taking the testimony of somebody who is going after the Bureau.PRESIDENT:Yeah. I know that. I'm just thinking ofthe --DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:They all look down the road and see whatwould be the result of what they are doing is, won't they? I would think so. I mean, I'm just trying, how -Would they go afterJohnson? Let's look at the distant future.Uh, look at the -How bad would it hurt the country, John, to have the FBI so terribly discredited? [Unintelligible]DEAN:[Unintelligible] I've, I've, kicked thisaround with Dick Moore, these, these broader questions, and, I think it would be damagingto the FBI, uh, but maybe it's time to-30-shake the FBI and rebuild it.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] DEAN:I'm not so sure the FBI is everything it'scracked up to be. I, I'm convinced the FBIisn't everything the public thinks it is.PRESIDENT:No. DEAN:I know quite well.it isn't.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] if you could get, uh,Jerry.Wilson in there rather than a political appointee. What is your feeling at the moment about Gray? Can he hang in?Should he? I don't know.DEAN:Uh -- PRESIDENT:Awfully close.DEAN:I -they're going to vote this They have anexecutive session this afternoon to invite me to testify.PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:Uh, there's no question, they're going toinvite me. Uh, I would say, based an how I handle the: (1) the formal letter that comes out of the Committee asking for information,and I programmed that they do get specific,just-31-what in the hell do they want to know thatI've got, and lay it out in the letter that's sent down here asking me to appear so I can be responsive, fully --PRESIDENT:Respond to the letter.DEAN:Respond to the letter in full. I think Ihave, I feel I have nothing to hide, as faras, uh, the issue they've raised.PRESIDENT:Would you respond under oath? DEAN:I think I would be willing to, yes. PRESIDENT:That's what I'd say because that's what I ampreparing in the press thing. I'll sayyou'll respond under oath in a letter. You will not appear in a formal session.DEAN:That&#8482;s, that's our present position.PRESIDENT:What if they say, what if they say, "Wouldhe be willing to be questioned under oath?"DEAN:That's not what the question is. Yes, I'dbe willing to be questioned under oath, butwe're not going up.PRESIDENT:No, no. But here? DEAN:Oh. I think that would be a hell of a badprecedent.-32-PRESIDENT:Okay. I just wanted to be sure we don'tcross that bridge. I agree. You -but you would respond to written inter rogatories.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:That's it. Okay.DEAN:Now, uh, after, after that, if we've beenresponsive, their argument for holding upGray's confirmation based on me is, shouldbe gone. Sure, they're going to say it raises more questions than it answers, butif we're but that can go on forever. We'vetaken the central points they want answers to, given them the responses, that puts something in Eastland's hand that can say,''All right, it's timei it's time to vote.'"And Eastland says he's got the votes to get Gray through. Now, but what haipens on the Senate Floor is something else, 'cause Byrdis opposing Gray. Byrd's got good controlof that Southern bloc.PRESIDENT:Not totally.DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:Byrd is running for leader of the wholeSenate. A lot of them may desert him on this.DEAN:But Mansfield, on the other hand, of course,has come out-33-and said that he favors, initially hesupported Gray's, uh, confirmation.PRESIDENT:My feeling is that they would like[unintelligible] I think that they'd like tohave a, an excuse not to do it. Maybethey'll use, not you, but all this crap about hearings [unintelligible]DEAN:Well if they say, if they say they have tohold up Cray's confirmation until the Watergate hearings are completed --PRESIDENT:Oh That's great.DEAN:That's the vehiclePRESIDENT:The best of both worlds for us, John, DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:because Gray, in my opinion, should not bethe head of the FBI. Not because of any character or other flaws or thoughtless flaws, but because he is going to be toomuch like Kleindienst. After going throughthe hell of the hearing, he will not be a good Director, as far as we're concerned.DEAN:I think that's probably true. He&#8482;ll be a,he'll be a very suspect Director. Not thatI don't think Pat won't do what we want. I, I read him a little differently than-34-Dick in that regard. Like he's stillkeeping close touch with me. He's calling me. He's given me his private line. We talk at night, just haw do you want me tohandle this, so and so forth. So he stillplays, playing in tight, and still being involved. But I think he--PRESIDENT:But he couldn't do it.DEAN:But he can't do it. He's under, he's goingto be under such surveillance by his own people' watch every move he's making -uh,that'll be the difficult thing for Pat. Notthat Pat wouldn't want to still play ball, but he may not be able to.PRESIDENT:I agree. That's what I meant.DEAN:Pat has already gotten himself, himself, ina situation where he's got this Mark Felt as his number two man. These other people aresurrounding him. If you put a guy likeJerry Wilson in there he could just, you know, wipe this, and say, "Gentlemen, I'm putting my own team in, and I'm going tobring people in I've met around the countrywho are good office directors; SAC's out of Chicago," wherever, and just put his ownteam together for the, for the Headquarter'sOffice.PRESIDENT:So where do you come out?-35-DEAN:Gray's already been locked into, to majorpersonnel decisions. I wouldn&#8482;t be surprised to see [unintelligible] occur if they say, that they cannot go forward withGray's hearings because of the Watergate.PRESIDENT:Where would that be done, John, at whatpoint in the Com mittee or on the Floor orboth?DEAN:It could happen. It would certainly bevoted on first in the, uh, uh, in the Committee, in the Judiciary Committee.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]DEAN:The question is, then, whether, uh, it'llbe,put on the calendar by the leadership. Iassume that that's --PRESIDENT:The leadership might determine that we willnot put it on the calendar until after the Watergate hearings.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Then we could then, Gray could then come inand say I will not wait that long.DEAN:And they'll -when they -you're "This,you're, this is damaging to the leadershipof the FBI, and I will have to withdraw based on this." What would be nice for allwould be to get Gray voted out of theCommitteePRESIDENT:Yeah.-36-DEAN:with a, with a positive vote, uh, enough toget him out of Committee, and then lock him at limbo there.PRESIDENT:What is Moore's judgment about Sullivan?Does he know?DEAN:Yeah, he's, uh, uh, he says it's a piece ofdynamite. He says it depends and we bothagree, that it, it -the way it would be donewould be a secret, whether it was done. Whether -this isn't the sort of thing we could just leap out and do. Have to be verycarefully thought through. Have to be -haveto-decide in advance should the White House not be involved or should we be involved? Ifwe're going to play with it, we are going toprobably have to say that we were involved and structure it in a way that there is nothing improper with our involvement.PRESIDENT:The difficulty with the White House beinginvolved is that if we are involved in pissing on Johnson, [unintelligible] that concerns me.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:That's why it really ought to be, I mean -Ifhe could justDEAN:I suppose the answer is saying, to, to havehim -to say to him-37-PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]DEAN:You've got, you know, this is something-"What you've, you've intimated a few things to me, uh. The proper place to take thatinformation is to the Senate JudiciaryCommittee or to the Attorney General, possibly." And then have Dick take it tothe Committee. Or is that too close to thePresident, still?PRESIDENT:First hand, if he takes it to the Committee,it's better if the Committee's conducting ahearing. [Unintelligible] Wait a m1nute, heworks for the Attorney General, doesn't he.DEAN:That's right. If he takes it toKleindienst, Kleindienst is going to say,"Bill, just don't do it because you are going to take DeLoach's name dawn with it, and DeLoach is a friend of ours."PRESIDENT:Bull shit.DEAN:Something I have always questioned. PRESIDENT:Nobody is a friend of ours. Let's face it.Don't worry about that sort of thing.DEAN:Well, it's something I will, taq I think Iought to [unintelligible] kick around with Dick Moore, 'cause ---38-PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:But first of all, I've got to, uh, just haveto be thought through every inch of the way. It came herePRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:late yesterday afternoon. PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:It was not -Bob said, uh, when I talked tohim, he said he was quite excited about it, as Ehrlichman said, gave a very favorable "Uh huh.&#64258; Uh, and I said, "Well, I'm notgoing to rush anything on this. It's -We'vea little bomb here that we might want to drop at onePRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:point down the road." PRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah. DEAN:Maybe, maybe the forum to do it is somethingtotally out of the Committee context betweenthe Gray confirmation hearings and the Watergate hearings. Maybe let him go over to U.S. News, or, who knows what it wouldbe, but we ought to consider every option, now that we've got it, and see if ---39-PRESIDENT:Rather than doing it in a hearing, doing itin the press. Then that will force the hearing to call him. That's another way you can do on this. Have him be selected toDEAN:Give an interview.PRESIDENT:to give an interview. I would do it in U S.News. Do it in [unintelligible] wireservice guy or something. A respected damnreporter. Why not go to a jackass like Mollenhoff? No, he's too close to us.DEAN:Well, that's interesting. Now, Mollenhoffis, is close but by God, you can't programMollenhoff to do anything.PRESIDENT:No.DEAN:And if, uhPRESIDENT:No. And also, we are in a position onMollenhoff, who's been fighting us some, that maybe, maybe Mollenhoff would be apretty good prospect for this thing becauseit's the kind of a story he loves, he digs on some. You couldn't tell him, however, uh [unintelligible] story part. Or Sullivanjust goes to talk to him, says, "Well, now,hell, you're a hell of a, hell of a guy, and, uh, I just want to tell you a fewthings."-40-DEAN:or, can you call Clark and say -can I callClark and say, "Listen, Clark, a guy has brought me a piece of dynamite I don't even want in the White House&#64258;?PRESIDENT:He will write that, though, won't he?DEAN:Yeah. Because that'd look like that's aset-up deal. Well, Clark Mollenhoff is thefirst guy to uncoverPRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:[unintelligible) anything, and he will sayno way.PRESIDENT:But he's willing to do it.DEAN:Uh huh. PRESIDENT:That's very important, at least.DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:Broadens the scope. Getting to the bottomof the whole thing, don't you feel that that's the need here is to broaden the scopeof the damned thing, instead of --DEAN:The focus is right on us. That's theproblem.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Nothing on the Democrats, andnothing,DEAN:Nothing. PRESIDENT:nothing on what the previous threeAdministrations did-41-DEAN:Nothing. It's making,PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:well, it, it -of course it's still aWashington story. You go out of this cityPRESIDENT:I know.DEAN:and you can't find anybody that even knowswhat's happening. Although it's increasedin the network coverage. That NBC thinglast night, which is just a travesty as far as --the very thing Ron was talking about, about shabby Journalism. They took theworst edited clips they could, out ofcontext, to respond to things they would say on the lead and they would have a littleclip of Ron saying, "Well, I deny that.'"And he was denying something totally other than what they were talking about in their charge. It was incredible. Someone isgoing through and putting that all togetherright now, and, Ron ought to be able to have a field day back with that one on NBC. It was just ver--, it was very, very dishonesttelevision reporting of a sequence ofevents. It was out of sequence.PRESIDENT:Well, you see, John -Yeah. I know thesituation. Ervin gets up there and, youknow, gassing around, he was huffing and puffing about his being a great Constitutional lawyer and all. I guess itjust makes us wonder about our firstdecision, doesn't it, (unintelligible] about sending Gray up. Probably a mistake, butthen, we didn't anticipate ---42-DEAN:Well --PRESIDENT:Or you think not. Who knows? DEAN:Who knows? That's right. Uh, if you didn'tsend him up, why didn't you send him up.Because he wasPRESIDENT:Right. I know. That's what they DEAN:That's true.PRESIDENT:That's what they -_ You send somebody elseup to take them on, not a big clown. You know what I mean?DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:I won't even announce any [unintelligible].I think the problem is, the reason that the Senate was not [unintelligible] beingreasonable was because [unintelligible] alot of this stuff hanging out there [unintelligible] Ervin Committee.DEAN:Well, we, you know, one, one thing is thatI, the saturation level of the Americanpeople on this story is [laughs] depressing. Pretty closein fact (laughs] the saturation level in this city is gettingpretty high now. They can't take too muchmore of this stuff.PRESIDENT:Think not?-43-DEAN:Nothing, nothing really new is coming out.PRESIDENT:Some kid, they said-I don't think thatanybody, incidentally, will care about somebody infiltrating the peace movementthat was demonstrating against thePresident, particularly on the war in Vietnam. Do you think so?DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:Anyway, I don't care about that. Whathappened to this Texas guy that took his money back? Was he --DEAN:All hell broke loose for him after. Thiswas Allen.PRESIDENT:No, no. Allen -yeah.DEAN:Allen, not Duncan, there were twoPRESIDENT:Nothing to do [unintelligible] DEAN:[Unintelligible]. All hell broke loose forAllen for this reason: He, uh, uh -The moneyapparently originally came out of asubsidiary of one of Allen's corporations down in Mexico. It went to a lawyer in Mexico who put it dawn as a fee billed tothe subsidiary. Then the, then the lawyer,the Mexican lawyer, sent it back into the States, and it came back up here. But, theweakness of-44-it is, is, uh, the Mexican lawyer: (1)didn't have a legitimate fee; (2) it could be corporate contribution. So Allen wanted; and Allen had personally put a note up withthe corporation to cover it. But Allen ismeanwhile having problems with his wife, and a divorce is pending, and tax problems. Sohe --PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible].The only problem I sawthere was where you put it off -lay it off [unintelligible] the fact that it was beingused for Watergate.DEAN:That's -I don't know why that went in theletter. I, uh -it wasn't used for theWatergate. That's the, that's theinteresting thing.PRESIDENT:It wasn't? DEAN:No. It was not. What happened is theseMexican checks came in. They were given toGordon Liddy, who said, "What do we -why don't you get these cashed?"" Gordon Liddy, in turn, took them dawn to this fellow,Barker, in Florida, and said, ""Would youcash these Mexican checks.'" Uh, and so that's how they went through Barker's bankaccount back in here. They could have beenjust as easily cashed at the Riggs Bank. There was nothing wrong [laughs] with the checks. Why all that rigamarole? It's justlike-45-a lot of other things that happened overthere. God knows why it was all done. It was totally unnecessary, and it was money that was not directly involved in theWatergate. It wasn't a, a wash operationto, to get money back in to Liddy, and the like.PRESIDENT:Who is going to be the worst witness upthere?DEAN:Sloan. PRESIDENT:Unfortunate.DEAN:Without a doubt. He's -PRESIDENT:He's scared? DEAN:He's scared. He's weak. He has a, uh, acompulsion to, uh, cleanse his soul byconfession. Now, we're, he's going, we're giving him a lot of stroking, uh, telling him you're doing a beautiful job. The funnything is, this fellow goes down to the CourtHouse here before Sirica, testifies [laughs] as honestly as he can testify, and,Sirica looks around and calls him a liar. (Laughs]He's a sad -Sloan can't win. So Kalmbachhas been dealing with Sloan. Sloan [unintelligible] as a child. Kalmbach hasdone a lot of that. The person that willhave the greatest problem with -as a result of Sloan's testimony is Kalmbach-46-and Stans. So they're working closely withhim to make sure that he settles down.PRESIDENT:Kalmbach will be a good witness. DEAN:Oh yes.PRESIDENT:Knowing what Kalmbach has been through.DEAN:Kalmbach has borne up very well. In fact, Idecided he may bePRESIDENT:Kalmbach, Kalmbach, of course, this issomewhat embarrassing, he is, they say, lawyer for the President. Well, hell, I don't need a lawyer. He handles that, thatproperty out there.DEAN:He's sensitive on that point. He, uh, over-he saw a briefing, uh, saw a transcript ofa, of a briefing where Ron was saying,"Well, he's really not, that's not the right nomenclature, this 'personal attorney." Herb said, "Well, gee whiz. I don't know ifRon knows what all I do." And I said,"Herb, well, don't worry about it."PRESIDENT:Well, what I meant is that this -I don'tcare about that, but I meant, it's just thefact that it's played that way, as if he'sin, that I am, he's in talking to me all the time. I don't ask him [unintelligible]-47-DEAN:I know that.PRESIDENT:I don't talk to him about anything. I mean,I don't know, I see Herb once a year when he brings the income tax returns.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:I'm sure that he, he handles that SanClemente property and all the rest, buthe's, he isn't a lawyer in the sense thatmost people have a lawyer.DEAN:No, no. Although he didn't even handle theestate plan, he's done some, you know,dove-tailing on it, like --PRESIDENT:Well, but anyway, we don't want to back offof him.DEAN:No. Anyway he's solid. He's solid.PRESIDENT:He will, uh, how does he tell a story whenhe gets, [unintelligible]? He's got a pretty hard row to hoe, he and Stans have.DEAN:He'll be good. He's going over every -Herbis the kind of guy who will check, not once, not twice, on his story, not three times, but probably fifty to a hundred times.Literally. He will go over it. He willknow it. There won't be a hole in it. He'll have thought it he, he'll do his ownQ. and A. He'll be have peoplecross-examine him from ten ways.-48-PRESIDENT:Good.DEAN:He will be ready, as John Mitchell will beready, as Maury Stans will be ready.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:Uh, it's uh --PRESIDENT:Mitchell is now studying, is he? DEAN:He is studying., Sloan will be the.worstwitness. I think Magruder will be a goodwitness. This fellow, Bart Porter, will be a good witness. They've already been through it, they've been through Prand Jury.They have been through trial. Uh, they didwell. [Coughs] And then, of course, people around herePRESIDENT:I [unintelligible]DEAN:won't be witnesses. PRESIDENT:They won't be witnesses. DEAN:Won't be witnesses.PRESIDENT:Hell, no. They will make statements.That's -That'll be the line which I think we've got to get across to Ziegler, in all of his briefings where he is constantlysaying we-49-will furnish information. That is not thequestion. It is how it's to be furnished, and we will not furnish it in a formal session. That would be to break down theprivilege. Period. Do you agree with that?DEAN:I agree. I agree. I have always thoughtthat's the bottom line, and I think that'sthe good thing about what's happening in theGray hearings right now. If we, they send a letter down with specific questions, I send back written interrogatories, sworn. Youknow as a, as a lawyer, that, uh, you canhandle written interrog--, interrogatories, where cross-examination is another ballgame.PRESIDENT:I know. DEAN:They can -you can make a person look likethey're inaccurate even if they're, even ifthey are trying to tell the truth.PRESIDENT:"Well now, really, you sh--, you can&#8482;t meanthat.&#64258; You know, uh, I know -All their face-making and all that crap. I know;[unintelligible]. Written interrogatoriesyou can --DEAN:Can be artfully, accurately answered andgive the full information.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] that there will be totaland full [unintelligible-50-Well, what about.the sentencing. When thehell is he going to sentence?DEAN:We thought he was going to sentence lastFriday. Uh,PRESIDENT:I know; you've said that.DEAN:no one knows what in the world Sirica isdoing. It's getting to be a long time now.It frankly is.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] DEAN:And no one really has a good estimation ofhow he will sentence. There's some feelingthat he will sentence Liddy the heaviest.Liddy's already in jail; he's in Danbury. He wants, he wanted to start serving so hecan get good time going. Uh, but Hunt,he'll probably be very fair with.PRESIDENT:Why? DEAN:Pardon?PRESIDENT:Why? Why Hunt?DEAN:He likes Hunt. He liked Hunt. He thoughtHunt was being open with him and candid, and Hunt gave a statement in open court that hedidn't know of any higher-ups involved and,and, uh, Hunt didn't put him through the rigors of-5l-trial, And Hunt was a beaten man, the lossof his wife, uh, was ill, they tried to move and have a, him severed from the trial. And Hunt didn't cause a lot of problems.Bittman was cooperative, uh. Whereas Liddyplayed the, played the heavy in the trial. His lawyer raised all the objections and thelike, and embarrassed, uh, the judge forsome in-chambers things he'd said, and --PRESIDENT:But Liddy's going to appeal the sentence? DEAN:Liddy is going to appeal the decision,uh,the trial. He will appeal, appeal that.PRESIDENT:He will appeal the trial? DEAN:Trial -And there's --PRESIDENT:He was convicted.DEAN:There is an outside chance that this man hasgone, this judge has gone so far in his zeal to be a special prosecutor --PRESIDENT:Well, some of those statements from thebench --DEAN:Incredible statements. PRESIDENT:To me, to me, incredible.-52-DEAN:Commenting on witnesses' testimony beforethe jury, was just incredible. Incredible. So he may have, there may be a mistrial. I don'tThere may be reversible error,even. I don't know.PRESIDENT:What about the Cubans? DEAN:The Cubans will probably be thought of ashired hands, and nowhere near the sentencesof Liddy, I would think. Uh, not all of them. Barker, uh, the lead Cuban, may get more than the others. It's hard to say. I,you know, I just don't have any idea.Sirica's a strange man. He is known as a hanging judge. Uh --PRESIDENT:That's the kind that I want.DEAN:That's right. [Laughs] PRESIDENT:I understand. DEAN:That's right. He's tough. He, he is tough.Now, the other thing, Sirica -there was someindication that Sirica might be putting together a panel. They have this system down there now, based on this informalagreement, where a judge, a sentencingjudge, convenes a panel of his own to take advice from. If Sirica were being shrewd,he just might get himself a panel and taketheir recommendations.-53-PRESIDENT:When will the Ervin thing be hitting the fanmost, I mean [unintelligible]DEAN:Well, I would say that, uh, uh, the bestindications we have now is public hearingswill probably start about the first of May.Now, they will, you know, there'll be a big, probably, bang of interest, initially. Wehave no idea how they will proceed yet. Wedo have sources to find that out, other than Baker. Incidentally, Kleindienst was, was, had called Ervin again, returned the call.Ervin is going to see him this week, uh,with Baker. That's --PRESIDENT:Public hearings the first of May. Well,that'll be a big show. The public hearings,I wouldn't think, though, I know from ex--,experience that, my guess is that, uh, I they could get through about three weeksof those and then I think it begins to peterout somewhat. Do you agree?DEAN:No, I -- PRESIDENT:ITT went longer, but that was a differentthing, and it seemed more important.DEAN:When I told Bob, oh, several months ago, Ihope they don't think [unintelligible). Hesaid the way they could have-54-those hearings and do a masterful job on us*is to hold one hearing a week on Thursdays, Thursday mornings, they cov--, they cover it live. That way, you'd get live coveragethat day; you'd get the networks that night;the national magazines that week; the -get the weekend wrap-ups. You could stretchthis thing out for nearly -PRESIDENT:We should insist -Our members of theCommittee at least should insist, &#64257;Let's get it over with, and go through five daysessions, and so forth.&#64258;DEAN:Yeah. Well, they, you know, they, they'renot that, I don't think they are thatPRESIDENT:No.DEAN:perceptive to, to figure that. PRESIDENT:Well, so be it. This is a, I mean, Inoticed in the news summary Buchanan wasviewing with alarm the [unintelligible] thegreat crisis in the confidence of the Presidency, and so forth. [Unintelligible)DEAN: Well, the best way --PRESIDENT:How much?-55-DEAN:Pardon?PRESIDENT:How much of a crisis? I mean, it'll be,it'll be in a newspaper [unintelligible] but the point is that every thing is a crisis.I mean, Christ, we've had -screw around withthis thing for a while [unintelligible] it'll be mainly a crisis among the upperintellectual types,'the ass holes, you know,theDEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:soft heads, soft -our awn, too -Republicans,Democrats and the rest. Average peoplewon't think it is much of a crisis unless it affects them. But it'll go on and on andon.DEAN:Well, I think it'll -I, I, you know, I thinkafter the Ervin hearings, they are going to find so much there will be some newrevelations. Uh, I don't think that, uh,the thing will get out of hand. I have no reason to believe it will.PRESIDENT:Oh, yes, there'll be the revelations in, inWatergate. They, they [unintelligible]?That's the point.DEAN:Well, they want to, they want to find outwho --PRESIDENT:who -is there a higher-up?-56-DEAN:Is there a higher up?PRESIDENT:They're really, let's face it, after, Ithink they are really after, uh, Haldeman.DEAN:Haldeman and Mitchell.PRESIDENT:Mitchell -I mean, Colson is not a big enoughname for them. He really isn't. You know, he is a thorn in their side, but Colson'sname bothers them none. So they get Colson.They're after Haldeman and after Mitchell. Don't you think so?DEAN:That's right. Or I bet they'd takeEhrlichman if they could drag him in butthey've been unable to drag him in in any way.PRESIDENT:Ultimately, uh, Haldeman, uh, Haldeman"sproblem is Chapin, isn't it?DEAN:Bob's problem is, is circumstantial. PRESIDENT:What I meant is, looking at thecircumstantial, I don't know that[unintelligible]. On top of that, Bob had nothing,-didn&#8482;t know any of those people, like the Hunts and all that bunch. Colson.did. But, uh, Bob, Bob did know Chapin.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Now, what -Now however the hell much Chapinknew I'll-57-be God damned, I don't know.DEAN:Well, Chapin didn't-know anything about theWatergate, and -PRESIDENT:You don't think so?DEAN:No. Absolutely not.PRESIDENT:Did Strachan? DEAN:Yes.PRESIDENT:He knew?DEAN:Yes. PRESIDENT:About the Watergate? DEAN:Yes.PRESIDENT:Well, then, Bob knew. He probably told Bob,then. He may not have. He may not have.DEAN:He was, he was judicious in what he, in whathe relayed, and, uh, but Strachan is astough as nails. I --PRESIDENT:What'll he say? Just go in and say he didn'tknow?DEAN:He'll go in and stonewall it and say, "Idon't know anything about what you are talking about." He has already done it twice, as you know, in interviews.-58-PRESIDENT:Yeah. I guess he should, shouldn't he, inthe interests of -Why? I suppose we can&#8482;t call that justice, can we? We can't call it [unintelligible]DEAN:Well, it, itPRESIDENT:The point is, how do you justify that? DEAN:It&#8482;s a, it's a personal loyalty with him.He doesn't want it any other way. He didn'thave to be told. He didn't have to be asked. It just is something that he found is the way he wanted to handle thesituation.PRESIDENT:But he knew? He knew about Watergate?Strachan did?DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:I&#8482;ll be damned. Well, that&#8482;s the problem inBob's case, isn't it. It's not Chapin then, but Strachan. &#8218;Cause Strachan worked forhim.DEAN:Uh huh. They would have one hell of a timeproving that Strachan had knowledge of it, though.PRESIDENT:Who knew better? Magruder?DEAN:Well, Magruder and Liddy. PRESIDENT:Ah -I see. The other weak link for Bob isMagruder, too. He having hired him and soforth.-59-DEAN:That's applies to Mitchell, too.PRESIDENT:Mitchell--Magruder. Now, where do you seeColson coming into it? Do you think he knew, knew quite a bit, I can't I can!t -yet hecould know a great deal about a lot of otherthings and not a hell of a lot about this, but I don't know.DEAN:Well, I've never --PRESIDENT:He sure as hell knows Hunt. That we know.And was very close to him.DEAN:Chuck has told me that he had no knowledge,uh, specific knowledge, of the Watergateincident before it occurred. Uh, there have been tidbits, that I have raised with Chuck,I have not played any games with him, Isaid, "Chuck, I have indications -"PRESIDENT:Don't play games. DEAN:I don't. --I --PRESIDENT:You&#8482;ve got to be -the lawyer has got to knoweverything,DEAN:That's right. And I said, "Chuck, peoplehave said that you were involved in this,involved in that, involved in this." And hesaid, "I -that's not true," and so on and so forth. Uh, I don't, I think that Chuck hadknowledge that something was going on overthere. A lot of people around-60-here had knowledge that something was goingon over there They didn't have any knowledge of the details of the specifics of, of the whole thing.PRESIDENT:You know, that must, must be an indication,though, of the fact that, that they had God damn poor pickings. Because naturallyanybody, either Chuck or Bob, uh, was alwaysreporting to me about what was going on. If they ever got any information they would certainly have told me that we got someinformation, but they never had a God damn[laughs] thing to report. What was the matter? Did they never get anything out ofthe damn thing?DEAN:No. I don't think they ever got anything. PRESIDENT:It was a dry hole, huh? DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Jesus Christ.DEAN:Well, they were just really getting started. PRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah. But, uh, Bob one time saidsomething about the fact we got someinformation about this or that or the other,but, I, I think it was about the Convention, what they were planning, I said[unintelligible]. So I assume that musthave been MacGregor, I mean not MacGregor, but Segretti.-61-DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:Bob must have known about Segretti. DEAN:Well, I -Segretti.really wasn't involved inthe intelligence-gathering to speak of atall.PRESIDENT:Oh, he wasn't? DEAN:No, he wasn't, he was out just, he was out--PRESIDENT:Who the hell was gathering intelligence?DEAN:That was Liddy and his, his outfit. PRESIDENT:I see. Apart from Watergate? DEAN:That's, well, that's right. That was partof their whole -Watergate was part ofintelligence-gathering, and thisPRESIDENT:Well, that's a perfectly legitimate thing.I guess that's what it was.DEAN:What happened is they -- PRESIDENT:What a stupid thing. Pointless. That wasthe stupid thing.DEAN:That was incredible. That's right. That'sright.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] to think that Mitchell andBob would allow, would have allowed thiskind of operation to be in the Committee.-62-DEAN:I don&#8482;t think he knew it was there.PRESIDENT:You kidding? DEAN:I don't -- PRESIDENT:You don't think Mitchell knew about thisthing?DEAN:Oh, no, no, no. Don't mis-I don't think heknew that people -I think he knew that Liddywas out intelligence gathering.PRESIDENT:Well? DEAN:I don't think he knew that Liddy would use afellow like McCord, for God's sake, whoworked for the Committee. I canit believethat. Uh, you know, that --PRESIDENT:Hunt? Did Mitchell know Hunt?DEAN:I don't think Mitchell knew about Hunteither.PRESIDENT:So Mitchell's thing is [unintelligible]said, "Gee, and I hired this fellow and Itold him to gather intelligence, but I &#338;&#64257;Maybe [unintelligible).DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Magruder says the same thing?-63-DEAN:Magruder says that -as he did in the trial-he said, it was, uh, --"Well, of course, my name has been dragged in as the guy who sent Liddy over there," which is an interestingthing. That's a --PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] DEAN:That's right. They said, well what happenedis --Magruder asked for a lawyer -he wantedto hire my deputy over there for General Counsel and I said, &#64257;No way. I can't give him up."PRESIDENT:Was Liddy your deputy?DEAN:No, Liddy never worked for me. Uh, therewas this fellow Fred Fielding who works forme. And I said, "I can"t give him up.&#64258; Hesaid, Magruder said, &#64257;Will you find me a lawyer?" I said, &#64257;I will be happy to look around.&#64258; I checked around the White House,Krogh said, "Liddy might be the man to doit, to go over there -he would be a hell of a good lawyer. Uh, he has written some wonderful legal opinions over here for me,PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:and I think he is a good lawyer."-64-PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:So I relayed that to Magruder. PRESIDENT:How the hell does Liddy stand up so well? DEAN:He's a strange man, Mr. President.PRESIDENT:Strange or strong, or both?DEAN:Strange and strong. PRESIDENT:Good.DEAN:Uh, he -his loyalty, I think, is just beyondthe pal He's just -nothing.PRESIDENT:He hates the other side too. DEAN:Oh, absolutely. He's strong. He really is.PRESIDENT:Well, what about the hang-out thing?[Unknown person enters, receivesinstructions from the President to takesomething to Haldeman, and leaves the room.]PRESIDENT:Uh, is it too late to, to, frankly, go thehang-out road? Yes, it is.DEAN:I think it is. I think -Here's the -Thehang-out road ---65-PRESIDENT:The hang-out road's going to have to berejected. I, some, I understand it was rejected.DEAN:It was kicked around. Bob and I and, and,and --PRESIDENT:I know Ehrlichman always felt that it shouldbe hang-out. [Unintelligible]DEAN:Well, I think I convinced him why that hewouldn't want to hang-out either. There is a certain domino situation here. If some things start going, a lot of other thingsare going to start going, and there aregoing to be a lot of problems if everything starts falling. So there are dangers, Mr.President. I'd be less than candid if Ididn't tell you the -there are. There's a reason for us not -not everyone going up and testifying.PRESIDENT:I see. Oh no, no, no, no, no. I didn'tmean go up and have them testifying. I meant --DEAN:Well I mean just, they're just starting tohang-out and say here's our, here's ourstory --PRESIDENT:I mean putting the story out to PR buddiessomewhere. Here's the story, the true storyabout Watergate. [Unintelligible)DEAN:They would never believe it.-66-PRESIDENT:That's the point.DEAN:The point is -the two things they areworking on on Watergate --PRESIDENT:Who is "they&#64258;? The press?DEAN:The press --PRESIDENT:The Democrats? DEAN:-the Democrats, the intellectuals --PRESIDENT:The Packwoods?DEAN:Right. Right. "They" would never buy it,uh, as far as (1) White House involvement in the Watergate which I think there is justnone, uh, for that incident that occurredover in the Democratic National Committee Headquarters. People just, here, would -didnot know that that was going to be done. Ithink there are some people who saw the fruits of it, but that's another story. I am talking about the criminal conspiracy to,to go in there. The other thing is that,uh, the Segretti thing. You hang that out, uh, they wouldn't believe that. They wouldn't believe that, that, uh, Chapinacted on his own to put his old friend,friend [unintelligible] Segretti in to be a Dick Tuck on somebody else's campaign. Theywould, they would have to paint-67-it into something more sinister, somethingmove involved, a part of a general plan.PRESIDENT:Shit, it's not sinister. None of it is. DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:Segretti's stuff isn't been a bit sinister.DEAN:It's quite humorous, as a matter of fact. PRESIDENT:As a matter of fact, it's just a bunch ofcrap. It's just is a [unintelligible]. Wenever knew. Never objected to -You don't object to such damn things, oh, anyway. On, and on and on. No, I tell you this, thelast gasp of the, of the, you know, of the,our partisan opponents. They've just got to have something to squeal about.DEAN:The only thing they have to squeal on.PRESIDENT:Squeal about that, that, and perhapsinflation, but that will end. Oh, yeah, they're going to squeal and then they're[unintelligible). They're having a hell oftime, you know.-68-They got the hell kicked out of them in theelection. [Unintelligible]. They are, they're, they&#8482;re going to Watergate around in this town, not so much our opponents, butbasically it's the media, uh, I mean, it'sthe Establishment. The Establishment is dying, and so they've got to show that aftersome rather significant successes we&#8482;ve hadin foreign policy and in the election, they've got to show, "Well, it just is wrong because this is -because of this." In otherwords, they're trying to use this to smearthe whole thing.DEAN:Well, that's why I, in fact, I keep comingback with this fellow, Sullivan, who could,PRESIDENT:-who could -- DEAN:could change the picture. PRESIDENT:How would it change it though?DEAN:Well it --PRESIDENT:By saying you're another? Is that what itis?DEAN:That's -yeah. But here's another, and ithappens to be Democrats. Your, uh -I, youknow, I just, I just wish --PRESIDENT:If you get Kennedy in-it, too, I'd be alittle more pleased.-69-DEAN:Well, now, let me.tell you something that's-lurks at the bottom of this whole thing.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:If, in going after Segretti, I -Segretti,right -they go after F41mbach's bankrecords, you'll recall that sometime back -maybe you, you perhaps didn't know aboutthis, it's very possible -that right afterChappaquiddick somebody was put up there to start observing. Within six hours.PRESIDENT:Did we?DEAN:That's rightPRESIDENT:I didn't know that. DEAN:That man watched that -he was there forevery second of Chappaquiddick, uh, for ayear, and almost two years he worked for, uh, he worked for Jack Caulfield, who was originally on John --PRESIDENT:Oh, I heard of Caulfield, yeah.DEAN:He worked for Caulfield originally and thenhe worked for, when Caulfield worked for John, and then when I came over here Iinherited Caulfield and this guy was stillon this-70-same thing.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Well, if they get to those bank recordsbetween, uh, it starts on July of '69through June of '71, and they say, ""Whatare these about? Who is this fellow that"s up in New York that you paid?'' There comesChappaquiddick with a vengeance. This guyis a, is a twenty year detec tive on the, uh, New York State, uh, New York City Police Department.PRESIDENT:In other words, we --DEAN:He is ready to disprove and to show that,everything from --PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] consider that wrong, do we?DEAN:Well, if they get to it, uh, it's going tocome out and the whole thing is going to turn around on that one. I mean, if Kennedyknew the bear trap he was walking into--PRESIDENT:How do we know -uh, why, why don't we get itout anyway?DEAN:Well, we sort of saved it. [Laughs]PRESIDENT:Does he have any record? Is it any good?DEAN:Uh, ha is probably the most knowledgeableman in the country.-71-He can't, you know, there are certain thingshe runs up against walls when they closed the, when they closed the records down, things he can't get, but he can ask all ofthe questions and get some, many of theanswers. As a, as a twenty year detective, but we don't want to surface him right now.But if things ever surfaced, uh, this iswhat they'll get.PRESIDENT:Now, how will Kalmbach explain that he"dhired this [unintelligible) Chappaquiddick?Did he -out of what type of funds?DEAN:We&#8482;d have -he had, he had money left overfrom, uh, pre-convention --PRESIDENT:Are they going to investigate those fundstoo?DEAN:They are funds that were quite legal.There's nothing illegal with those funds.PRESIDENT:How can they, how can they investigate them?DEAN:They can't. PRESIDENT:Huh? DEAN:They -The only -The -What they would -7happens -what, wh would occur, you see, isthey would stumble into this in going back to, say '71, on Kalmbach's bank records.They've-72-already asked for a lot of his bank recordsin connection with Segretti, as to how he paid Segretti.PRESIDENT:Are they going to go back as far asChappaquiddick?DEAN:Well, yeah, but this, this felloaw workedinto '71 on this. He was up there. Hetalked to everybody in that town. He, youknow, he, he"s the one who caused a lot of embarrassment for Kennedy already by saying -he went up there as a newspaperman. ""Sowhy aren't you checking this? Why aren't youlooking there?'" And pointing the press's attention to things. Gosh, the guy did amasterful job. I have never been, had thefull report.PRESIDENT:Coming back to the Sullivan thing, you'dbetter now go ahead and talk to him. Youwill now talk to Moore, again to Moore and,uh, then what?DEAN:Uh, I'll see if we have something that'sviable. And if it's --PRESIDENT:In other words -Have you talked to Sullivanagain?DEAN:Oh, yes. Yes, I plan on it.PRESIDENT:Why the hell don't you get him in and talkto him? [Unintelligible]DEAN:Well, he's -I asked him last night and hesaid, "John-73-give me a day or so to get my, all myrecollections together,"PRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:and that was yesterday. So I thought Iwould call him this evening and say, uh,""Bill, Id just like to knowPRESIDENT:You see, the fact that you&#8482;ve talked to himwill become known. So maybe, maybe the bestthing is to say '"I am not concerned here,'" and you say that he, he's to turn this over, and you say we will not handle it. Thenmake, then anyway, it gets to the Committee,aren't they going to say, ""The White House turns over information on the FBI?"' That'sthe -I don't know how the Christ to get itdown there.DEAN:Well, that's what I think I can kick aroundwith Dick Moore. He and I do very well justbouncing these thingsPRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:back and forth and coming up with somethingthat we don't have to be embarrassed aboutit.PRESIDENT:I think a newsman, a newsman, a hell of abreak for a newspaper.DEAN:Oh yeah.PRESIDENT:A hell of a story. Uh, maybe the Star wouldjust run a hell of a story, I mean a real bust on the FBI. Then, and then, and-74-then the Committee member, the man you, you,for example, on this basis could call Gurney, and say, "Now look. We're on to something very hot here. I can just tellyou, I'm not going to tell you anythingmore. Go after it, forget you ever had this call." Then he goes.DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:It seems to me that that's a very effectiveway to get it out.DEAN:Uh huh. Another thing is, I don't thinkSullivan would give up the White House.Sullivan --as I said could, there's one liability in Sullivan here, is that's hisknowledge of the earlier things thatoccurred, uh --PRESIDENT:That we did? DEAN:That we did.PRESIDENT:Well, now you should tell them. Oh, youmean he wouldn't, he'd say, he'd say, "I did no political work at all. My, my work in the [unintelligible] Nixon Administrationwas, was solely in the national security."DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:And that is totally true.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Okay. Well, good luck.-75-DEAN:All right, sir.PRESIDENT:It's never dull, is it? DEAN:Never.-76-