TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING BETWEEN THEPRESIDENT AND HENRY PETERSEN IN THE OVAL OFFICE ON APRIL19, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:07 A.M.IN-CAMERA SUBMISSION APRIL 30, 1974U.S. v. EHRLICHMAN4/19/73 President/Henry Petersen Oval Office 10:12-11:07 a.m.Mr. Petersen is here.PRESIDENT:Fine. I'll be finished --ulould you tellhim that (unintelligible) You know I'msorry. I keep thinking (unintelligible)PETERSEN:Morning, Mr. President.PRESIDENT:Come on in (unintelligible) wanted to getyou back in the court room. I wanted to tell you -(unintelligible) which I think probably should be (unintelligible) in thiswhole thing.PETERSEN:Yes, I need to know. PRESIDENT:Well, the problem basically is this.This-is the Ellsberg case. You remember ourlate,dear departed friend, Edgar Hoover Youwill recall -you know how he handled the Ellsberg case. Personally, it involvedMarx. He was one of his closest friends.Marx. Not the Marx Brothers, the toy makers.PETERSEN:Um.PRESIDENT:Marx's daughter is married to Ellsberg andHoover just kicked and churned and said, "I'm just not going to investigate thisthing. I can't do it.&#64258; (Unintelligible)This is at least what we got through Mitchell. Under the circumstances, Henry, an investigation was undertaken with a very,very small crew at the White House. That'swhere the Hunt group -nothing in terms of break-ins or anything was approved. Butseeing what these crazy bastards have donesince, and seeing what -now the investigation also and this is the hopeful thing as far as the prosecution,.they didn'tdo a damn bit of good. I mean all they got,they qot mostly what appeared in the papersPETERSEN:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;2PRESIDENT:What I think is this. None of it will win inthe prosecution. Then after that finallyHoover got into it. Now, when Hoover got intoitit should now be wiretapping.PETERSEN:Oh?PRESIDENT:He said there was no question about that. Idon't know who he wiretapped. But I mean thatnational security taps were used at that time and then as you know with the hullabaloo thatarose out there we knocked off all of thosetaps (unintelligible). I am quite aware ofthe fact that we do a lot of business in thisfield.PETERSEN:Yes sir, yes sir. And I don't know ---PRESIDENT:I just want you to know. I just -want you toknow that my purpose--PETERSEN:Yes sir. We could hardly be called illegal inthis field--PRESIDENT:My purpose in the Hunt thing in calling you issimply to say it is, it was a nationalsecurity investigation. It is not related inany way to the Watergate thing.PETERSEN:Correct.PRESIDENT:And that the purpose of it was PETERSEN:Well, is there any other -you know I can'tstay away from that which I don't know.PRESIDENT:Certainly. Did Hunt do anything else?PETERSEN:Is there any other national security stuffthat we could --PRESIDENT:Yes.PETERSEN:-inadvertently get into through Hunt. PRESIDENT:Yes, you could get into other things. Forexample, Hunt -Hunt involved in bugging,apparently. He tried, for example, on oneoccasion, he was --it was basically(unintelligible) Ellsberg period, you know,this place was leaking like a sieve, and youremember Kissinger's National Security people.PETERSEN:Yes, sir. I do.3.PRESIDENT:We had a horrible time and frankly thecountry was in jeopardy because I -it was imperative that our situation with foreign governments and -a lot of others that I'dget Hoover in and say, "Damn it, we've gotto (unintelligible).&#64258; (Unintelligible) for myself. You know how Hoover was. You know,but he hated to get into anything involvingpress. So when you -I think though, quite candidly, Hoover for years -you should knowthis--bugged the--RESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;PETEMSEN:I remember the situation, but I don't(unintelligible)PRESIDENT:I can't tell you --PETERSEN:I remember the entire thing, I remember. Iknow who you mean but I can't recall his name, either.PRESIDENT:RESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;And I know that when I first came intooffice he used to send that stuff over here by the carload. He used to love that sort of thing. That we discontinued also. Wediscontinued that.PETERSEN:Well, I should say, Mr. President, justcoincidentally that since they transferredthe Internal Security Division to me, uhPRESIDENT:You have (unintelligible) PETERSEN:Yes. And I-I. But I'm also PRESIDENT:I don't knowPETERSEN:The authority runs from you to the AttorneyGeneral.PRESIDENT:Certainly.PETERSEN:The way some of it is being exercised isonly (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:What? PETERSEN:The way some of it is being exercised isonly (unintelligible). I just set up. Ijust set up.4PREDIDENT:I don't want the damned thing(unintelligible) you understand. I understand it's been knocked off. I want some -I don't want (unintelligible)understand you're going after gangsters orother things like that. It just isn't worth it.PETERSEN:No. I am not talking about the nationalsecurity stuff in the country. I am talking about either foreign intelligence stuff. I am holding some of them up am holding someof them up because they have to be approvedby a Deputy somebody over at the State Department and we are tightening up theprocedure. That's all.PRESIDENT:The President approves (unintelligible) PETERSEN:I understand. PRESIDENT:I don't know about the Attorney GeneralRESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;--now, youhave also heard about Joe Kraft.PETERSEN:Yes, sir. PRESIDENT:You've read that column. (Unintelligible)was bugged, I think. But what it involvedwere leaks of national security documents that had gotten into Kraft's columns and soforth and so on. Nothing came of it as aresult except, they, I think, fired somebody over here. Now that -now that's another thing.PETERSEN:Right.PRESIDENT:I just wanted you to know that they areinvestigating, but it is miniscule comparedto what Johnson was doing. You--you knowwhat I mean. As you know, it was very heavy during that period -very, very heavy. And as Sullivan sent a memorandum to me and itwas pretty shocking. He went afterStevenson on the Democratic Committee and also bugged our plane during the campaign.PETERSEN:I understand.5PRESIDENT:Now, my point is that that doesn't justifyanything now. But in the case of the Hunt thing,you should know that when he was at the WhiteHouse and he was working in the field of drugs. He worked on this particular activity and Liddy worked with him as I understand. I think Liddy did too. This -but frankly, I really didn't know this myself until this case came out. Isaid, "What in the (expletive removed) is Huntdoing?&#64258; I understand what he was doing and I would have approved at the time because we had nothing that we could get out of Hoover. Hoover did conduct the investigation and did a hell of a good job. Hoover did recommend theinvestigation to the prosecution on Ellsbergwhich I think is probably safe. I don't know if he will make it or not.PETERSEN:I don't know either. PRESIDENT:I hope so. PETERSEN:Incidentally... PRESIDENT:I want you to understand that I have never usedthe word national security unless it is. As faras Watergate is concerned, or any of that crap, you just -but when I called you the other day I said I am not going to let any stone unturned and that is what you and I have got to understand. But I am anxious to get one or twothings, Henry, very important. In terms ofprivilege --That you -that, One. Any conversations with the President are obviously privileged.PETERSEN:Yes, sir. I understand that. PRESIDENT:Everybody shall have a mind and anyconversations -and the in the national securityarea -you can ask any others around here -you ask Dean -Dean-Ehrlichman and Haldeman if Hunt was involved in the Ellsberg -and-he was involved we called it the plumbing operation. And basically it was leaks from the NationalSecurity Council which appeared in the columnsand it involved onlyand did not involve any uh -it did not involve any uhany electronic device, evesdropping, but it involved a hell of an investigation, one hell of a lot.PETERSEN:I indicated to you--6PRESIDENT:That&#8482;s as much as I know about it at thistime.PETERSEN:I indicated to you the other day &#338;PRESIDENT:I don't know whether Dean -Dean may be quitefamiliar with this because he was very much-you know what I mean, he was sort of incharge of this kind of activity and hf~ may befamiliar with it and he may not be but I have tried to get this sorted out. I have just hadthem on it over here, as you know, what didthey do and what is there as far as I amconcerned, I don't mind anything coming out,but -want anything coming out on the Ellsbergthing.PETERSEN:Right. PRESIDENT:We had to do it. I don't want anything comingout on what we were doing with NSC. I don'twant anything coming out -what we were doing-Hoover (unintelligible) Hoover(unintelligible)PETERSEN:(Inaudible)PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) I am hoping for the day whenthe man I have in mind for that job gets awayfrom what h6 is presently doing so I can put him in but we have got to get a man in thereand fast. And I am going to clean everybodyout of the Bureau, at second level.Everybody.PETERSEN:Well---He needs -he's a little ---PRESIDENT:You know you -with a job like his.(Unintelligible)PETERSEN:It's not a job anybody should run for, Mr.President.PRESIDENT:What is that?PETERSEN:It's not a job anybody should ask for or runfor. The responsibilities are almost as greatas your Office.PRESIDENT:You should know that I felt -that you were--you came highly commended. Mitchell saidHenry Petersen is the best guy for the job.PETERSEN:In this present difficulty, I am flattered.7PRESIDENT:Well, it&#8482;s a hell of a thing--a veryimportant thing;PETERSEN:Mr. President, the other day I indicatedthat we had a problem with leaks, and as youknow, we do.PRESIDENT:It was shocking to me to see Strachan'stestimony--not his latest testimony wherethe U.S. Attorney&#352;PETERSEN:Well, I think we are going to have to dosomething...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) verbatim-verbatim(unintelligible) legality of this thing(unintelligible).