TRANSCRIPT OF A TELEPHONE CONVERSATIONBETWEEN THE PRESIDENT AND CHARLES W.COLSON ON MARCH 21, 1973 FROM7:53 TO 8:24 PMMARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:53 TO 8:24 P.M.5COLSON:Well, he said, anyway. But you know, he, that'sprobably the typical, uh...PRESIDENT:Sure. COLSON:...little bit of an apology session(unintelligible)...PRESIDENT:Right. COLSON:...I think he, I think he wanted to be sure thatwe knew that, uh, uh, that he wasn't, uh...PRESIDENT:Right.COLSON:getting off the reser -- well that's clear. Onething last night was very clear. He wanted me tobe sure and he asked me whether I was incommunication with, with you or with, uh, Haldeman and I said yes and, uh, he said well please, he said be sure they know we're notgetting off the reservation. We, we want to help,we just feel like...PRESIDENT:Yeah.COLSON:...we need a channel of information. And we needto know the facts and, uh...PRESIDENT:Um huh. COLSON:...we need somebody to take us into confidenceonce in a while and keep us clued in and, uh...PRESIDENT:Right. COLSON:...and give us all the facts. We mu- we'll knowhow to handle them. We, we'll defend you ifyou...PRE SIDENT:Yeah. COLSON:...we'll defend the Administration if we knowwhat the facts are.*********** PRESIDENT:What's your judgment as to what, (clears throat)what ought to be done now. You know, there'svarious discussions about, uh, whether, uh,should be, uh, a uh, report made or something,you know, a, uh, report to, uh, the President orjust hunker down and take it or what, what have you, and so forth and so on.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:53 TO 8:24 P.M.6COLSON:Well, my feelings, Mr. President, uh, thus far,frankly, is that you're not being hurt by this atall. That this is, a, a, a Washington story stilland that, that sounds incredible after all this time and all this publicity but I, I, I'm convinced that, uh, uh ...PRESIDENT:But you see, looking to the future, I suppose,Chuck, what some of our fellows that are, you know, like, uh, when Dean, who's really done asuperb job here keeping all the fires out, he's,(clears throat) he's concerned about, you know, what, what bubbles out, you know.COLSON:Yeah, well Dean has a problem also, Mr.President. I, I didn't want to say this to you,uh, Monday night when you mentioned to me that, uh, uh, that, that Dean has done a spectacularjob. I don't think anybody could do as good a jobas John has done. The, the problem I foresee in this is not what has happened so far-- I mean I, I think the, uh, the mystery of the Watergate,uh, I don't know whether somebody's gonna, uh,somebody else higher up in the Committee for the Re-Election is gonna get named or not but, uh, tome that isn't of very great consequence to thecountry if it, if it happens. The thing that worries me is that, is the possibility of somebody, uh, charging an obstruction of justiceproblem -- in other words that the subsequentactions would worry me more than anything and it, that's where John has, you know, he's done all the things that have to be done but, that, thatmakes him a little more of a participant than,than you would like if you, if you, if, uh, he's the fellow that has to, uh, coordinate it all.It's in, uh -- of course, he's got the bestprivilege, he's got a double privilege but, you know the, the subsequent developments would be the only ones that would worry me. I don't worryabout the, uh, how the Watergate came about. Ithink that's been so milked out that they get someone else, well they get 'em, that's all. Andif there's testimony, it'll...PRESIDENT:Um huh. COLSON:...it will get so God-damn confused. It's, it'smay be the stuff after, uh, afterwards that...MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:53 TO 8:24 P.M.7PRESIDENT:You mean, uh, the me-, yo-, been saying uh, the,the, with regard to the defendants? Of course,that was all...COLSON:Yeah, that, that's, that's that area I mean, thatgeneral area.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Of course, that was...COLSON:I don't want to burden you with any...PRESIDENT:...that had to be done. (Laughs) COLSON:Hell, yeah. No, I'm not - no second thoughts.That's not the point.PRESIDENT:Yeah. COLSON:The point is that, just that, it limits theability now to...PRESIDENT:Yeah.COLSON:...to stand up to it. I don't know, uh, I'vethought of several things. I've thought of trying to get a, uh, a special counsel in to you that could, uh, uh, you, you...PRESIDENT:We could appoint, you mean?COLSON:Yeah, that you could appoint. Not, not as aninvestigator but as a counsel. Just to handle the God-damn thing on the grounds that you don't wantthe Justice Department handling it, and you don'twant the regular White House staff handling it -- they've got their work to do.PRESIDENT:Yeah.COLSON:And, uh, you appoint a man of...PRESIDENT:Which has... COLSON:...totally impeccable uh, credentials, uh...PRESIDENT:Um, huh.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 7:53 TO 8:24 P.M.8COLSON:...a man known for his integrity, uh, standingbefore the Bar, you know, that kind of thing.But, a guy who is also totally loyal or just adamned good lawyer who would be professional then. That's one thought that I've been playing with the last couple of days.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Hum.COLSON:We have an advantage, you see, of getting allthe, the people who have been in one way oranother participating out of the damn thing sothat you, you've got a guy who, uh, frankly can, can deal with, uh, deal with anybody he has to deal with.PRESIDENT:Yeah.COLSON:Special counsel. PRESIDENT:I think they have, of course, of course, you'vegot the problem of what the judge is gonna sayFriday. I suppose he's gonna have quite an harangue, isn't he?COLSON:Oh yeah, yeah, he's, he's...PRESIDENT:He's pretty tough and then, of course, you've gotthe problem of, uh, the defendants, particularly Hunt. What he, what's he gonna do. That's alwaysa problem, I know.COLSON:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Of course he's got problems if he does anything.You know whether he's, uh...COLSON:Oh, that's right.PRESIDENT:You know what I mean. He's, uh... COLSON:Yes, sir. I, my own opinion of that is that he,uh, that he just will hang in where he is. Imean, I think he, uh, that, at the moment I thinkthat's in, in as good shape as it can be. Uh, you never know -- lot of...PRESIDENT:There 're a lot of pressures on him, lot ofpressures.Sure are