TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETINGAMONG THE PRESIDENT, H.R. HALDEMAN,JOHN EHRLICHMAN, AND RONALD ZIEGLER ON MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO1:30 P.M.************EHRLICHMAN:This story and, uh, this one, uh, this, thisWatergate thing is potentially very debilitating around, but we have to devote a large part of our time to keeping peoplebusy in, uh...PRESIDENT:I know. EHRLICHMAN:...affirmative kinds of (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Unintelligible) because it involves peoplewe know.EHRLICHMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:It involves, frankly, people who don't(unintelligible) guilty. This and that.EHRLICHMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:And, and, also for, you, you don't wantanybody guilty, or, it isn't the question.We know that everybody in this thing did itwhatever they did with the best of intention. That's the sad thing about it.EHRLICHMAN:Sure.PRESIDENT:I told them all this morning, I don't wantpeople on the staff to divide up and say, "Well, it's this guy that did it, or thisguy that did it," or th-th-th-th--EHRLICHMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:The point is what's done is done. We do thevery best we can, and cut our losses and soforth, best you ever could do.EHRLICHMAN:Did he talk to you about this, uh, thisthing, uh, uh... Commission...Commissionthing?MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. to 1:30 PM13[Part II]EHRLICHMAN:Oh, oh, no. I hadn't, uh, we hadn't talkedabout that.HALDEMAN:That's Bill Rogers.PRESIDENT:Well, I'm sorry, John. EHRLICHMAN:No. I, uh, uh, we talked this morning aboutgetting him out front. I'm afraid it s --PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) of canning him right away.Uh, let's see. Let's see about that. Maybe we can. Well, whatever, what have you gotto report. John and I have just started a(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:All I have is Dean's report. I did not talkto Mitchell, because this thing changed(unintelligible) want to be from Mitchell. Uh, he had a long conversation again today with Paul O'Brien, who's the guy he's been --talked with yesterday...you know, this,that, and all that, and uh, he says O'Brien is very distressed with Mitchell. The more he thinks about it, the more O'Brien comesdown to Mitchell could cut this whole thingoff, if he would just step forward and cut it off. That the fact of the matter is asfar as Gray could determine that Mitchelldid sign off on it. And if that's what it is...PRESIDENT:You mean as far as O'Brien is concerned.HALDEMAN:Yeah.EHRLICHMAN:You said, "Gray." PRESIDENT:What's that?HALDEMAN:I'm sorry. O'Brien not Gray. As far asO'Brien can determine, Mitchell did sign off on this thing and, uh, that's, and Dean believes that to be the case also. Hecan't, Dean doesn't think he can prove it,and apparently O'Brien can't either, but they both think that that...PRESIDENT:That's my intention...MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.14HALDEMAN:The more O'Brien thinks about it, the moreit bothers him with all he knows, to see all the people getting whacked around, gettingwhacked around, in order to keep the thingfrom focusing on John Mitchell, when inevitably it's going to end up doing thatanyway and all these other people are goingto be so badly hurt they're not going to be able to get out from under. Uh, and that's one view. How, to go back on the Magrudersituation as O'Brien reports it, havingspent several hours with Magruder, yesterday afternoon, O'Brien and Parkinson. Jebbelieves, or professes to believe, andO'Brien is inclined to think he really does believe, that the whole Liddy plan, the whole super-security operation, super-intelligence operation was put together bythe White House, by Haldeman, Dean and others.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:Really, Dean, that Dean cooked the wholething up at Haldeman's instructions. Uh, the whole idea of the need for a super-intelligence operation. "Now there's somesemblance of, of, uh, validity to the point, that I did talk", not with Dean, but with Mitchell, about the need for intelligenceactivity and--PRESIDENT:And that Dean recommended Liddy? HALDEMAN:Yeah, but not for intelligence. Deanrecommended Liddy as the General Counsel.PRESIDENT:Yeah, but you see this is where Magrudermight come Well, go ahead. Okay.HALDEMAN:Uh, that Mitchell bought the idea that wascooked up in the White House for a super-intelligence operation, and that this was all set and an accomplished fact in Decemberof '71, before Liddy was hired by theCommittee. But then, Liddy was hired by theMARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.15Committee to carry it out and that's whyDean sent Liddy over to the Committee. Then there was a hiatus. There were thesemeetings in Mitchell's office, uh, whereLiddy unveiled his plan. And the first plan he unveiled, uh, nobody bought. They alllaughed at it. Cause it was so bizarre. Sohe went back to the drawing board and came back with a second plan and the second plan didn't get bought either. That was at thesecond meeting and everything just kind oflingered around then. It was sort of hanging fire. Liddy was pushing to getsomething done. He wanted to get moving onhis plans. And at that point, he went to Colson and said, "Nobody will approve any of this, uh, uh, and, you know, we could, weshould be getting,...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...getting going on it." And Colson thengot into the act in pushing to get which,Erich started with the Colson phone call toMagruder saying, Well, at least listen to these guys." Then the final step was--allof this was rattling, around in January.The final step was when Gordon Strachan called Magruder and said Haldeman told him to get this going, &#64257;The President wants itdone and there's to be no more arguing aboutit." This meaning the intelligence activity, the Liddy program. Magruder toldMitchell this, that Strachan had ordered himto get it going on Haldeman's orders on the President's orders and Mitchell signed off on it. He said, "Okay, if they say to doit, go ahead.&#64258;PRESIDENT:Uh, as that this is the bugging? HALDEMAN:The whole thing, including the bugging.PRESIDENT:Shit.HALDEMAN:The bugging was implicit in the second plan.I, Dean doesn't seem. to be sure whetherMARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M TO 1:30.P.M.16PRESIDENT:Well, anyway--HALDEMAN:he doesn't think that particular bug wasexplicit, but that the process of bugging wasimplicit and, as I didn't realize it, nor didhe, but it was also in the Sandwedge going way back--the early plan. That, incidentally, is apotential source of fascinating problems inthat it involved Mike Acree, who's now the Customs Commissioner or something, Joe Woods, uh, a few other people.PRESIDENT:Nothing happened?HALDEMAN:It wasn't done, that's right, but there -- atsome point, according to Magruder, after this was then signed off and put under way, Mitch-Magruder--Mitchell, Mitchell, called Liddy intohis office and read him the riot act on the poor quality, of stuff they were getting.(Pause) Uh, that's basically the scenario orthe summary of, of what Magruder told the lawyer. Dean's theory is that both Mitchell and Magruder realize that they now have theirass in a sling , and that they're trying tountangle it, not necessarily working together again, at least he doesn't think they are But,in the process of that they are mixing applesand oranges for their own protection. And that they're remembering various things in connection with others, uh, (unintelligible)like Hunt and Liddy (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:You don't have another (unintelligible) do you? HALDEMAN:No sir.**********(material not related to Presidential actionshas been deleted)[Part III]HALDEMAN: He says, for example, Magruder doesn't realizehow little Dean told Liddy. He thinks that Dean sent Liddy in. Liddy said...Frankly, nowas far as Dean screening to Liddy was that, uh,you as General Counsel over thereMARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.17HALDEMAN:can also take as a side activity the, the(Cont' d)political intelligence question because wedo need some input on demonstrators andstuff like that. That, that, that they'renot doing anything about, but he never got into any, setting up an elaborateintelligence aparatus.PRESIDENT:Okay. HALDEMAN:Dean, Dean says that as a matter of fact, incontrast to Magruder's opinion, at the firstmeeting where a Liddy plan was presented,everybody at the meeting laughed at the plan on the basis that it was just, it was so bizarre that it was absurd and it would befunny.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:The second meeting, Dean came into themeeting late. He was not there during mostof the presentation, but when he came in he could see that they were still on the same kind of a thing. And he says in effect, Igot Mitchell off the hook because I said, Itook the initiative in saying, "You know it's an impossible, uh, proposal and wecan't, we shouldn't even be discussing thisin the Attorney General's office," and all that. Mitchell agreed, and then that's when Dean came over and told me that he had just,had seen this wrap-up on it, and that they,still it (unintelligible) was impossible, and then we, that they shouldn't be doing,it; that we shouldn't be involved in it andwe ought to, uh, drop the whole thing. Then as Dean said, "I saw a problem there and, uh, I thought they had turned it off and inany event I wanted to stay ten miles awayfrom it, and did." He said the problem from then on, starting somewhere in early Januaryprobably, was that Liddy was never reallygiven any guidance after that. Uh, Mitchell was in the midst or the IT and T and all that stuff, and didn't focus on it...MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.18PRESIDENT:Martha.HALDEMAN:...and Magruder was running around withother things and didn't pay much attention,and Liddy was kind of bouncing around loosethere, uh.EHRLICHMAN:Well, now, how do you square that with theallocation of money to it?HALDEMAN:Well, that presumably was the subject infocus by somebody else...EHRLICHMAN:Magruder.HALDEMAN:...Who signed off on that.EHRLICHMAN:Magruder, uh, possibly Mitchell, possiblyStans, certainly, uh-- (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:I suppose they could say the allocation ofmoney was just for intelligence operations generally. I think (unintelligible. That's what my guess is. That's what Magruder saidis true.EHRLICHMAN:Someone was paid to focus on, somebody-- HALDEMAN:Yeah, someone, someone focused and agreedthat there had to be some intelligence andthat it, it Could take some money and thatLiddy should get it.EHRLICHMAN:And against the background of the two plansbeing presented and rejected, the naturalquestion that would arise is, well, what are you going to do with the money? You don't have an approved plan?HALDEMAN:Yeah.EHRLICHMAN:So that doesn't put anything together. PRESIDENT:Well, it doesn't hang together, but it couldin the sense that the campaign--HALDEMAN:Well, what he, what he thinks, he thinks...MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.19PRESIDENT:My guess--HALDEMAN:...that Mitchell did sign off on it. PRESIDENT:That's the point. But uh, my, my guess isMitchell could just say, "Look," I, he says,"he has this and that and the other thing," and I said, "all right go ahead, but therewas no buying of this da, da, da--"HALDEMAN:He says if you heard Dean's opinion(unintelligible)PRESIDENT:So--HALDEMAN:Now O'Brien says that Magruder's objectivesor motive at the moment is a meeting with Mitchell and, me. And, uh, that what he hastold some of the lawyers, may well be a shotcross the bow to jar that meeting loose. Uh, O'Brien doesn't really believe Jeb, but he's not sure. O'Brien is shook a1 littlebit himself as he hears al1 this. But hedoes see very definitely and holds also to the theory of mixing of apples and oranges. He's convinced that Jeb is pushing togetherthings that don't necessarily fit togetherin order to help with a conclusion. And, again he's very disappointed in Mitchell.He feels that Mitchell is the guy that'sletting, people down. O'Brien made the suggestion that if you wanted to force some of this to a head, one thing you mightconsider is that O'Brien and Parkinson, whoare getting a little shaky now themselves, are retained by the Committee. That is byFrank Dale, who is the, the Chairman of theCommittee.PRESIDENT:Does it still exist? HALDEMAN:Uh, the...They, did they're--PRESIDENT:They aren't involved in the damn thing arethey? O'Brien and Parkinson?MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.20HALDEMAN:Yes.PRESIDENT:They ran this all from the beginning? HALDEMAN:Oh, no.PRESIDENT:Well, that is what I thought.HALDEMAN:But they are involved in the post-discovery, post-June 17th.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) O'Brien says, "Everythingwith the Committee," said, "What you might want to consider is the possibility is to waive our retainer, waive our, our, uh,privileges and instruct us to report to thePresident all of the facts as they are known to us as to what really went on at theCommittee to Re-Elect the President&#64258;.PRESIDENT:I've been, I, I've been informed. For me tosit down and talk to them and go through, uh--HALDEMAN:I don't know he, he says, he doesn't meannecessarily personally talk to you, but he means talk to Dean or whoever you designate as your, your, uh, man to be working onthis. 'Uh, now--other facts. Hunt is atthe Grand Jury today. (Unintelligible) We don't know how far he is going to go. Thedanger area for him is on the money, that hewas given money. Uh, he's reported by O'Brien, who has been talking to his lawyer, Bittman, not to be as desperate today as hewas yesterday, but to still be on the brink,or at least shaky. What's made him shaky is that he's seen McCord bouncing out there andprobably walking out scot free.PRESIDENT:Scot free, - a hero.MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:33 P.M.21HALDEMAN:And he doesn't like that. He figures it,it's my turn. And. that he may go--PRESIDENT:That's the way I, that's the way I wouldthink all of them would feel.HALDEMAN:And that he may decide to go with as much asis necessary to get himself into that sane position, but probably would only go with asmuch as is necessary. There isn't a feelingon his part of a desire to get people, but, uh, you know, a desire to take care of himself. And, uh, that he might be willingto do what he had to do to tare care ofhimself, but he would probably do it a gradual basis and he may in fact be doing itright now at the Grand Jury. He feels insummary that on, uh, both Hunt and Magruder questions we're not really at the crunch that were last night. He isn't as concernedas he was when we talked to him last night.(Unintelligible) we are now going with uh, uh, Silbert--PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:The U.S. Attorney has is going to Siricaseeking immunity for Liddy so Libby can be a witness. Liddy's lawyer will argue againstimmunity, for he does not want it. Uh,Dean's judgment is that he'll prob-, probably fail. Sirica will grant it given Sirica's clear disposition--PRESIDENT:Then he gets, if he doesn't talk, then hegets contempt. Is that it?HALDEMAN:If Liddy is in, if he gets immunity hisintention, as of now at least, is to refuseto talk, and then be in contempt. The contempt is civil contempt and it only runs for the duration of the Grand Jury which isof a limited duration. And as long as he'sin jail anyway, it doesn't make a hell of a lot of difference to him.PRESIDENT:I, I would almost bet that's what Liddy willdo.MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.22HALDEMAN:Well, that's what Dean will al-also bet. Deanhas asked through O'Brien to see Maroulis, or whatever his name is, Liddy's lawyer, for Liddy to provide a private statement saying that Deanknew nothing in advance on the Watergate, whichLiddy knows to be the case. To his knowledge, Dean knew nothing about it and Dean would liketo have that statement in his pocket and hasasked Liddy, Liddy's lawyer to ask Liddy, for such a statement, which he feels Liddy will, would want to give him. Uh, raised thequestion whether Dean actually had no knowledgeof what was going on in the intelligence area between the time of the meetings in Mitchell's office, when he said don't do anything, and thetime of the Watergate discovery. And I putthat direct question to Dean, and he said, "Absolutely nothing."PRESIDENT:I, I would, I would, uh, the reason I wouldtotally agree, that, that I would believe Dean there (unintelligible) say would be lying to us about thatEHRLICHMAN:Well he said --PRESIDENT:But I would believe for another reason--that hethought it was a stupid God damned idea.EHRLICHMAN:There just isn't a scintilla...PRESIDENT:Yeah. EHRLICHMAN:...of hint that Dean knew about this. PRESIDENT:No, sir.EHRLICHMAN:Dean was pretty good all through that period oftime in sharing things, and he was tracking with a number of us on --**********PRESIDENT:Well, you know the thing that, the reason Itold Bob--and this incidentially also covers Colson--and I, uh, and I, I don't know whether,ah--I know that most everybody except Bob, andperhaps you, think Colson knew all about it. But I was talking to Colson, rememberexclusively about it--and maybe thatMARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P M.46[Part IV]EHRLICHMAN:And that's a terrible thing. I, uh, I thinkif he were faced with that reality, uh, hewould, uh--********** PRESIDENT:Well, what is Mitchell's option though? Youmean to say, uh let's, let's see what hecould do. Does Mitchell come in and say, "My fault...My memory was faulty. I lied?" No. He can't say that.EHRLICHMAN:He says, uh, uh--PRESIDENT:&#64257;That I may have given a -- withoutintending to, I may have given, been responsible for this, and I, I regret itvery much, but I did not intend that, I didnot realize what they were up to. They, they were talking, we were talking aboutapples and oranges.&#64258; That's what I think hewould say. Don't you agree?HALDEMAN:I think. - EHRLICHMAN:Yeah.HALDEMAN:He authorized apples and they boughtoranges. YeahPRESIDENT:Mitchell, you see, is never, never going togo in and admit perjury. I mean you can uh,talk about immunity and all the rest, but he's never going to do that.HALDEMAN:They won't give him immunity anyway, Iwouldn't think, unless they figure theycould get you. He is as high up as they've been.EHRLICHMAN:He's the big Enchilada.HALDEMAN:And he's the one the magazines zeroed in onthis weekend.PRESIDENT:They did? Uh, what grounds? That he knew?HALDEMAN:Well, just a quote that they maybe have abig fish on the hook.PRESIDENT:I think Mitchell should come down.(Unintelligible).MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.47EHRLICHMAN:To see you, me, Magruder.PRESIDENT:Yeah. We'll have him come down at 5:30.Tell him that there's, there's, tell himthat Magruder's (unintelligible). Come downI'd like to talk to him (unintelligible). I would like to talk with him, with youMagruder and he -- is that who you mean? --and Dean -- no, no.HALDEMAN:Well, Magruder said he would be happy tohave Dean sit in. It's my view, I don'tthink we rant Dean to sit in.PRESIDENT:Alright, well alright.(unintelligible) Sitdown and have it (unintelligible) then weshould have my talk.HALDEMAN:I would think so. I think that would bevery constructive.PRESIDENT:Magruder has got to know that I, I Justdon't, that my own feeling is, Bob, thereason I raise the question of Magruder is what stroke have you got with Magruder? I guess we've got none.EHRLICHMAN:I think that, I think that the stroke Bobhas with him is that the, in the confrontation to say, &#64257;Jeb, You know thatjust plain isn't so&#64258; and, uh, uh, Just starehim down on some of this stuff and it's a golden opportunity to do that and I mean, uh, and I think you will only have this oneopportunity to do it.HALDEMANCourse he's told me it isn't so before. EHRLICHMAN:That's all the better, but I, in his presentframe of mind I'm sure he's rationalizedhimself into a, into a table that hangs together and--But if he knows that you are going to righteously and indignantly denyit, uh--PRESIDENT:Say that he's trying to lie to save his ownskin.EHRLICHMAN:It'll, it'll bend, uh, it'll bend him.MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.48HALDEMAN:Well, then I can make a personal point ofview in the other direction, and say, &#64257;Jeb, for God's sake don't get yourself screwed upby...EHRLICHMAN:Yes. HALDEMAN:...solving one lie with a second.&#64258;EHRLICHMAN:That's right.HALDEMAN:&#64257;You've got a problem. You ain't going tomake it better by making it worse.&#64258;PRESIDENT:Yeah, he'll be a hero for the moment, but,ah, in the minds of --HALDEMAN:Well, then you've got, then you've gotMagruder facing all...PRESIDENT:Let me tell you something.HALDEMAN:...the choices. PRESIDENT:...let me tell you something. Uh, I havebeen wanting to tell you this for some time(unintelligible) always dealing with theinformer, good causes are destroyed. Chambers is a case in point. Chambers told the truth, but he was an informer, obviouslyit was because he was informed against Hiss,that they made it worse for him, but it didn't make any difference ifhe(unintelligible). First of all, he was an(unintelligible)informed and, uh, Hiss was destroyed because he lied-- committed perjury. Chambers was destroyed because hewas an informer, but Chambers knew he wasgoing to be destroyed. Now, they've got to know--Magruder's got to know that this wholebusiness of McCord going down this road andso forth. Uh, I don't know what I don't know what the (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:McCord is a strange bird.PRESIDENT:He's trying to get out. I have never methim. Ever meet him?MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.49EHRLICHMAN:Nope. But, uh, Dean--PRESIDENT:Tell me about him. HALDEMAN:Let's go another one. So, so you persuadeMagruder that his present approach is (a) nottrue; I think you can probably persuade him of that; and (b) not desirable to fake. So he thensays, in despair, "Hey what do I do? Here'sMcCord out here accusing me. McCord has flatly accused me of perjury. He's flatly accused Dean of complicity." Dean is going to go, andMagruder knows as a fact that Dean wasn'tinvolved, so he knows that Dean is clean, he knows when Dean goes down, Dean can testify as an honest man.PRESIDENT:But, is Dean going to finger, uh, Magruder?HALDEMAN:No, sir. PRESIDENT:There's the other point.HALDEMAN:Dean will not finger Magruder but Dean can'teither. Likewise, he can't defend Magruder.PRESIDENT:Well-- Alright.-- HALDEMAN:Dean won't, Dean won't (unintelligible) Magruder.But Magruder then says, &#64257;Okay, if Dean goes downto the Grand Jury and clears, clears himself, there's no evidence against him except McCord'sstatement, which won't hold up, and it isn'ttrue.&#64258;PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:&#64257;Now, I go down to the Grand Jury, becauseobviously they are going to call me backPRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:"...and I go to defend myself against McCord'sstatement which I know is true. Now I've alittle tougher problem than Dean has. You're saying to me don't make up a new lie to cover up the old one. What would you recommend that I dodo? Stay with the oldMARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.50lie and hope I would come out, or clean myself upand go to jail?"PRESIDENT:What do...HALDEMAN:Or what?PRESIDENT:...you advise? What would you advise him to do? HALDEMAN:I, I'd advise him to go down and clean it up.PRESIDENT:And say, "I lied?"HALDEMAN:Say, "I lied." I would advise him to seekimmunity and do it.PRESIDENT:Do you think...EHRLICHMAN:If he can get immunity?HALDEMAN:Absolutely. PRESIDENT:Then what would he say?EHRLICHMAN:Say, "I thought I was helping. Uh, it's obviousthat, uh, there is no profit in this route, uh, uh. I did it on my own motive. Nobody asked me to do it. I just did it because I thought it wasthe best thing to do from everybody's standpointand I was wrong to do it." That's basically it.HALDEMAN:Magruder's viewpoint that to be ruined that way,which isn't really being ruined, is infinitelypreferable to going to jail. Going to jail forJeb will be a very, very, very difficult...PRESIDENT:Well, if it's a --EHRLICHMAN:Well Magruder doesn't seem to be (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Magruder is a very unusual person. HALDEMAN:(Laughs) Yep. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)EHRLICHMAN:The question is whether the U.S. Attorney willgrant immunity under the circumstances.HALDEMAN:Well, he would if he thought he was going to getMitchell.EHRLICHMAN:Yeah, that's right.MARCH 27, 1973 FROM 11:10 A.M. TO 1:30 P.M.51HALDEMAN:The interesting thing is, would be, would beto watch Mitchell's face at the time I, Irecommend to Magruder that he go down andask for immunity and confess. (Pause)**********PRESIDENT:Go on with this, uh, go on with thisCommission.EHRLICHMAN:Step on that it seems to me is to sell BillRogers on the idea, if it's a good idea.HALDEMAN:The, the other, first thing is to talk withBill Rogers and see whether he comes up with a decent committee.EHRLICHMAN:Well I'd say first we've got to be convincedthat it's a good idea. If the President's satisfied that it is a good idea, then we'll get Bill Rogers to (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Well you see, to make it is--the problemthat we've got here as, we've gotta, we've gotta, uh, everybody (unintelligible) felt that the time and energy put into this thing(unintelligible) the amount of time that Ishould spend with Bill and Mitchell and so forth (unintelligible) necessary Rogers uh,how do we open that. Do you want to open it(unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:...glory in this for Bill (unintelligible).This is his idea (unintelligible) clean.HALDEMAN:You see you're, you're saying Bill wouldpublicly be the father of this.EHRLICHMAN:Bill would be the father of this. He'd goto Ervin and say, "I'm terribly concernedabout...PRESIDENT:He'd be the broker EHRLICHMAN:...this whole business, uh, uh."HALDEMAN:He came to the President and said this iswhat you must do.PRESIDENT:Go to Warren?