TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING AMONGTHE PRESIDENT, H.R. HALDEMAN, JOHN EHRLICHMAN,STEVE BULL, AND RONALD ZIEGLER ON APRIL 26,1973, FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING AMONG THE PRESIDENT,H.R. HALDEMAN, JOHN EHRLICHMAN, STEVE BULL, AND RONALD ZIEGLERON APRIL 26 1973, FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.PRESIDENT:Bob, how&#8482;re ya doin'?HALDEMAN:Okay.(20 second pause)PRESIDENT:Had a long day, haven't you?HALDEMAN:I got the, ah -here's your letters.(Unintelligible) wrote one on each of us, soat least the...PRESIDENT:Good.HALDEMAN:And as he said, they are legal letters, not PRletters, but he said they thought they had tobe. That's right.PRESIDENT:Okay. HALDEMAN:Ah, a quick film was on the rest of thatthing. I've heard it before I left(unintelligible). After the discussion onwhether to go to the Grand, whether to call anew Grand Jury (unintelligible) that wasEhrlichman's idea at the time (unintelligible)Grand Jury, White House call (unintelligible)Senate Committee.PRESIDENT:You were there, Haldeman? HALDEMAN:And, uh...PRESIDENT:Why did (unintelligible)?HALDEMAN:I don't know, I don't know, I think that hewanted to set up this meeting with, uh, hewanted Dean to meet with Mitchell andEhrlichman and Bob, you know. He went throughit. Then Dean said, "You were, you know, faced, faced now with the fact that the U.S.Attorney's gonna pull all the defendants backand immunize them, and, uh, send them back tothe Grand, Grand Jury.&#64258; And, uh, he said,"That won't do any good 'cause they'llstonewall. Except for Hunt and that's notproper handling.&#64258; And the Pres-, you said,"That's why the, the immediate thing you'vegot no choiceAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.2HALDEMAN(CONTINUED):(unintelligible). But that you deal with the onepoint, is that right?&#64258; Dean said, "That's right." You said, "if, if," you said, "Would you agree that if that will buy time we'd better well, better damn well get that done.&#64258; Dean said, "I think he ought to be given some signal anyway." You said, "For Christ sake give him a way down. Turn it off." You said, "Who's gonna talk to him? I guess Colson.He's the one.&#64258; Dean said, "Well Colson doesn'thave any money, that's the thing. One of the real problems is they haven't been able to raise money. A million dollars in cash is a very difficult problem, as we discussed before.&#64258; He said, "Mitchell has talked to Pappas. I called him last night. John asked me to call him last night after our dicussion and after you'd met with John to seewhere that was."PRESIDENT:John Ehrlichman? HALDEMAN:I guess. And I said, "Have you talked withPappas?" This was all in code because Martha Mitchell picked up the phone. And, uh, so I said, "Did you talk to the Greek.&#64258; He said, "Yes I have.&#64258; And I said, "Is the Greek bearing gifts.&#64258; And he said, "Well, I'm gonna call you tomorrow onthat".PRESIDENT:Who's this? HALDEMAN:Dean to Mitchell. PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Dean says, "Did you talk to the Greek.&#64258; Mitchellsaid, "Yes I have.&#64258; Dean says, "Is the Greek bearing gifts.&#64258; Mitchell said, "Well, I'm gonna call you tomorrow on that."PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:You said then, "Well look, what is it you need onthat?&#64258; Dean said, "It sounds easy, but that's where our breakdown is, that it's easy to do." You said, "Well if you had it out would you get it to somebody.&#64258; Dean said, "Well LaRue leaves it in mail boxes, and then someone phones Hunt.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.3HALDEMAN(CONTINUED):They're a bunch of amateurs in that business.&#64258; And Isay, "That was the thing we thought Mitchell ought tobe able to do is to find some way to do that sort ofthing. None of us know how to." You said?HALDEMAN:I said. Dean said, "You have to wash it. It has togo to Vegas or to New York City (unintelligible) all that.&#64258; He says, "I've learned all this after thefact, and I'll be in great shape for the next timearound," And I said, "What about the money we movedback in here?&#64258; Dean said, "They may have somestill.&#64258; And I said, "Kalmbach must have some." Dean said, "Kalmbach doesn't have a cent.&#64258; And I said,"Well 350 was all we saved out of the Kalmbachmoney.&#64258; I said, "That's the problem. We're sosquare that we get screwed up in all this.&#64258; And yousaid, "Let me suggest this, the Grand Jury thing has appeal. It's at least (unintelligible). And thenyou got off that subject and turned back to thequestion of the Grand Jury. Dean said, "Once westart on that though, there's no control. They didan amazing job of keeping it on track before, but (unintelligible) going on (unintelligible).&#64258; Youasked, "What happened to the Grand Jury?&#64258; Dean says,"It depends on what Magruder says. He changes hisstory all the time.&#64258; And I said, "That's the, that'sone which we have on Magruder. That one is, is that he, he'll be by himself unless they give himimmunity, then we have an interesting problem." Deansays, "We have control of who they immunize." Yousay, "I'm thinking how the President looks. We'd becooperating and that's where it should be done in the Grand Jury, let me take executive privilege beforethe Committee.&#64258; And I said, "Then do you agree withthese Grand Jury transcripts?&#64258; And Dean said,"That's not up to us, that's up to the court.(Unintelligible) the Grand Jury (unintelligible).&#64258; And you said, uh, I said, "It's in our interest toget it out, get the Grand Jury thing out and get ourstory in public.&#64258; You said, "Well, let's look at theother possibilities. First one is to say the hellwith it -tell them the hell with it -if we can raise the money, and that blows the whistleAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.4HALDEMAN(CONTINUED):and that raises problems. That means they get Magruder,maybe Colson, maybe Mitchell.&#64258; "No, they can't get Mitchell.&#64258; Dean says, "This starts the whole FBI actionagain.&#64258; You say, "You think they might get Ehrlichman?&#64258;Dean says, "Well, Krogh could do it on the sly, because the National Security line won't settle in a criminalsituation.&#64258; But you said, "We have no choice on Hunt,but Mitchell, he's gonna blow no matter what.&#64258; Dean said, uh, "What was our -I'd like to see how we can lay out everything that you know to the Grand Jury so thatif Hunt blows, we'll have already told them.&#64258; And hesaid, "Do you mean including the Ehrlichman deal and all that business?&#64258; I said, "No, not the Ehrlichman dealbecause Hunt would go to jail for that, too, so he isn'tgonna raise that.&#64258; And you said, "Well that's right, we shouldn't go into the National Security area anyway.&#64258;And he said, "Well, the other thing we have is, we havethe Grand Jury and we have the Committee. The Grand Jury appeals because the President makes the move andthat's the place to do it. And the third is just tohunker down and fight.&#64258; And Dean said, "That's a high risk because somebody will break.&#64258; You said, "and thenwhat about the President's covering up.&#64258; He talks onabout legal ground of the Grand Jury while our public statement are (unintelligible) Grand Jury discussion ofthat. You said, "We have to move fast because thesentencing is on Friday.&#64258; Dean said, "The Attorney General can call Sirica and ask for a delay insentencing for two weeks. Kleindienst says(unintelligible)." Dean said, "The person I feel we could use is Petersen. It would be awkward for him, but we could remove him from his present post for discussionof that sort of thing, making us, call a specialassignment here and have us advised as to what is obstruction and what isn't. (Unintelligible) nuances."You said, "How would you get him out?&#64258; Dean said,"Appeal directly to Petersen.&#64258; You said, "Call him in as a special counsel to the White House rather(unintelligible).&#64258; Dean said, "I (unintelligible)." AndI said something about Petersen's wanting toAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.5HALDEMAN(CONTINUED):leave anyway. Dean was very surprised atthat. Uh, and you said, "Well, follow up andsee if Kleindienst can-get it put off and, uh,second, get Mitchell down here tomorrow todiscuss this." And I said, "Why not tonight?&#64258; And then you said, "I'll keep looking through.Well, maybe Dean should report to me at theend of the week and I should stay away fromMitchell's (unintelligible). And you said,"It's good to consider these options when wehave the right plan, uh, although it's up.It's no doubt that you were right before the elections. Now the election's over and weneed a new plan now.&#64258; And I said, "We have toturn off the erosion because it comes to thePresident and we&#8482;ve got to cut it out at anycost."PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). Well that part of it isbetter than the first part.HALDEMAN:Yeah, it's -the whole thing is still...PRESIDENT:Because I talk about (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:In the context of, of trying to smoke out fromDean what kinds of things he would say to do.PRESIDENT:Well this part is, I mean, uh, very few thingsthat give me much relief, but that part is,uh, when you look at that, we are not sayingthere it comes to, uh, to doing it. I don't,the thing I'm concerned about is I did not tell him to do something about Hunt. Did I?HALDEMAN:No, sir. You didn't.PRESIDENT:You didn't say anything (unintelligible) aboutHunt. You said to get Mitchell down and talkabout this thing and I said...HALDEMAN:Not about this though.PRESIDENT:No, I know. I meant the point is about Huntwe said, look you, uh, eventually he's gonnablow anyway, remember. I (unintelligible) that thing. We've done that before theelection it won't work now.HALDEMAN:It's, I still think that (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.6PRESIDENT:It's like when he talks about his trump card,that may be what he thinks. But, let me say,that's a trump card, that's a hell of ason-of-a-bitch for him to play too. It'sreally an admission that he is involved in thewhole...HALDEMAN:Yep.PRESIDENT:...business of Hunt which he, which he isnot...HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:...yet, he never admitted that, has he?HALDEMAN:No.PRESIDENT:See, that's the only discussion of the 350that ever occurred with Dean that you recallor had you discussed earlier the, the 350? Insome of our talks I might have, I've...HALDEMAN:I don't think so, I think because he, heexplained it to you in elementary terms thatthe (unintelligible) that this was the firsttime you covered it. He outlines(unintelligible)...PRESIDENT:But in his earlier, earlier (unintelligible)yesterday he did mention the 350.HALDEMAN:Yeah. Yeah.PRESIDENT:That's right.PRESIDENT:So, therefore, that must have been the firsttime, that's my point.HALDEMAN:Yeah. The way he s--, the say he told youabout it would indicate that...PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:it was the first time.PRESIDENT:Yeah. He said, for example, "Is that yourproblem with Bob (unintelligible) 350?" ,correct? I don't remember. As a matter offact, Bob, the conversation looking atit, evenat its worst, does indicate that the firsttime Dean was coming in and saying, "Look,there's a cancer in the heart of the Presidency."APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.7PRESIDENT(CONTINUED):And he said, "We got this problem with Hunt."And I say, "Well, God damn, it's the NationalSecurity and we've got to turn it off. We'velooked at it."HALDEMAN:What you're also seeing in, for the firsttime, is that there's a problem with Dean.'Cause he's told you what he, he's done in, indropping this money off to (unintelligible)and things like that. He says LaRue -that'sthe first you know, that sort of thing.PRESIDENT:That's right. And from that time on, I didnot see him until he came in that day for fifteen minutes to talk about resignation,which is also significant, Bob.HALDEMAN:Or the night you saw him -you saw him Sundaynight.PRESIDENT:Alone?HALDEMAN:Alone. Wait a minute. After you met withEhrlichman and me...PRESIDENT:Oh.HALDEMAN:...you called us in here Sunday night, thenyou had Dean come over.PRESIDENT:Well, that was after Kleindienst had comeover,HALDEMAN:You have Kleindiesnt in the afternoon, you hadEhrlichman and me come in that evening, thenyou had Dean come in.PRESIDENT:Well, I don't want you to bundle this one withthat one with Dean and Magruder 'cause Iprobably just told Magruder (unintelligible).And, and Dean by that time had gone to theGrand Jury, hadn't he?HALDEMAN:That's interesting, Anderson, Jack Andersonhas what he calls a probably astonishing storynow been told of how the Watergate cover-uptore apart at the stiches. It's a very -thepart of it that I know...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.8PRESIDENT:Was accurate?HALDEMAN:Highly accurate. PRESIDENT: Yeah. HALDEMAN:He says, for one thing, he says, "Our sourcesdeclared categorically that President Nixon had no advance knowledge of the Water break-in andbugging. But the first former Attorney General,John Mitchell, and White House counsel John Dean, also swore to him that they had no part in the illegal operation.PRESIDENT:Swore to him. HALDEMAN:"It is well known around the White House,however, that Jeb Stuart Magruder was acting ascam--" I think this is a Colson story. And then it goes into, "As number two man at the Committee, he directed the activities of McCord and Liddy. -Liddy submitted regular reports to Magruder on the bugging under the code name Gemstone. Magruder also arranged for Liddy todraw cash out of the Committee safe. At therequest of our (unintelligible) story-of contacting Magruder, Liddy going out to see Kleindienst at Burning Tree. Powell Moore called Kleindienst in the back room and told him they were caught red-handed and, headed by theSecurity Chief. Kleindienst picked up thetelephone--(unintelligible), Kleindienst picked up the telephone--this may be Kleindienst's story. He reached Assistant Attorney General Henry Petersen. "Henry," instructed Kleindienst, "I want you to be sure that thesepeople are treated as any other person would betreated who was arrested under the circumstances.&#64258; (Unintelligible) Liddy returned to campaign headquarters and began stuffing his file into a shredder.PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:"Over at the White House meanwhile, Dean orderedtwo aides to clean out the files of Watergate conspirator Howard Hunt. Eight cardboard cartons were sneaked out of the White House and stored at the warehouse and later, returned to the White House, most of the documents selectively destroyed.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.9HALDEMAN(CONTINUED):Dean was ordered by the President to find out ifthere were any White House people involved. Contraryto the impression given out by the White House, Deannever submitted a written report. Our sources stateflatly that Dean used his authority to obstruct theFBI and keep incriminating evidence away from the Justice Department. He even ordered Hunt out of thecountry. White House Aide Charles Colson, accordingto one source exploded, 'Do we want to make the WhiteHouse an accessory to a fugitive from justice?&#8482;&#64258;PRESIDENT:Yeah, that's Colson. HALDEMAN:"One of the President's closest advisors, Ehrlichman,wanted to put out a statement acknowledgingMagruder's role in the Watergate conspiracy. Thiswas vigorously opposed by Clark MacGregor, whosucceeded Mitchell as campaign chairman.&#64258; That's Colson also. "A few Presidential advisors, includingEhrlichman and Colson, warned the President to tredwater because the Watergate decisions must have beenapproved by Mitchell and Dean. Mr. Nixon repliedthat both have denied any involvement and asked for proof. By mid-March the President's faith in Deanbegan to waiver. He ordered Dean to Camp David towrite a belated report on his Watergateinvestigation. After a few days at the Presidentialretreat, Dean reported back to the President he simply couldn't write a report. Angrily, Mr. Nixontook Dean off the Watergate case. Colson meanwhiletook a lie detector test and proved his own inn--,innocence. Dean was furious, "Now, we're all gonnahave to have to take one," Dean groaned. Colson and Ehrlichman also put together information that: One,Dean had advance knowledge of the Watergate bugging;two, Dean had ordered Hunt out of the country; andthree: Dean had authorized payments to the defendantsto keep their mouths shut. On Friday, April 13th, Ehrlichman confronted Dean with the charges."PRESIDENT:Did he?HALDEMAN:Could be. "That night, Dean put together somedocuments he had been saving which indicated bothHaldeman and Ehrlichman had knowledge of theAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.10HALDEMAN:Watergate coverup. The next day, which would(CONTINUED)be Saturday, Dean took the documents toAssistant U.S. Attorney Earl Silbert and madeaccusations against Haldeman, EhrlichmanjMitchell, and Magruder. In turn, Dean askedfor immunity. Silbert refused to grant immunity. Instead he called in Magruder andconfronted him with Dean's revelations.That's the day Magruder broke down. This brokedown Magruder who also confessed his role inthe conspiracy." (Pause).PRESIDENT:Dean's story doesn't look as good there, doesit?HALDEMAN:No. Now this is put out -I assume by Colson.And that, the area in it that I don't know-the fact that Colson and Ehrlichman puttogether information. Chuck's tryin' to tiehimself into the...PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:...to the, you know, attack on this. Andthis. "Dean put together some documents(unintelligible) That's what I don't understand, how, how did Colson knowthat?"...that indicated Haldeman invol--"Maybe that's what Colson (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:What kind of documents could Dean possiblyhave had? (Unintelligible). And so he saysDeans had the safe or the files removed andthe (unintelligible) parts taken out and then brought it back, he said.HALDEMAN:And the documents were destroyed(unintelligible). That's the theory I don't,I, I wonder about. I just wonder if there'senough, you know,PRESIDENT:It isn't.HALDEMAN:...made up a story partly.PRESIDENT:You mean that Colson may be the one that didthat to the documents. Is that what you mean?HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). No. You see, Colson mayhave called Dean and said, "For Christ sake,get those documents."APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.11PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. There was a story, youknow, that Colson's, uh, very worried -Dean, Dean told me -about the documents, Colson. So Dean's covering himself on that. In Hunt's safe. Although Colson, according to Dean, said they were about Watergate. God damn lot of things(unintelligible) since I had that recorder inthere. You know, otherwise -we really wouldn't know. Dean would come out, could come out with his so called trump card, with a half-ass saying, "I told the President about it, the President said to get the money and duh, duh,duh, duh, duh."Now there's, now let me say, ifyou were called to the stand and asked about that conversation, what would you say? Would you, would you say, well it's a privileged conversation, the President was authorizing disclosure?HALDEMAN:I would say it's a privileged conversation andthe President's authorized me to characterize itas I remember it.PRESIDENT:Yeah sure. HALDEMAN:And as I remember it, the President, at thatpoint, was very much, very anxious to try and get to the facts -even though Dean had spelledit out to him before I came into the room -uh,what he believed to be the, the complete Watergate story. Uh, and that had led to some areas as, and he had cited examples of, of, uh, problems. And one of the examples he cited was, uh, this threat.PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:And the President had apparently picked that upbefore I came in and then reopened it when I was in there on the basis of trying to sound out Dean on what his recommendations would be in dealing with that option.PRESIDENT:Exactly.HALDEMAN:And then he probed different things. He said,"Well, would you do this, would you do that, uh would you recommend this and would you recommend that." It was clear to me in watching that, listening to that discussion, that the President was trying to draw Dean out in terms of what hisAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.12HALDEMAN(CONTINUED):approach to it was, what his knowledge was, andwhat the background of it was.PRESIDENT:'Cause I said, "Should we take it to the GrandJury? Should we, uh, should we make a state ment or"-and then, the, the key point I make in thereis that, I, I think it's the last of theconversation which is the important thing, is that Hunt...HALDEMAN:...is gonna blow anyway. PRESIDENT:Hunt is gonna blow anyway. But that won't work.Basically. But in the interim, you werequestioning, as you were in other areas in thisthing, you were questioning and probing Dean clearly to determine, not only what facts Dean was talking, but what we could ascertain is the, Dean's role in some of these things. Yes, and I said, "Well, it just isn't gonna work."HALDEMAN:"Why did the President call you into thatmeeting, Mr. Haldeman? Well, he frequently callsme into meetings.PRESIDENT:Sure. HALDEMAN:...involving matters of importance that hewants, uh, to be sure (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:&#64257;...be sure that this is not just, uh"we had toconsider the options and what they were and Iwanted you there to consider those options.HALDEMAN:I don't see it so much that you were consideringthe options in that sense. You were considering options on how to deal with the Senate Committee and Grand Jury. But as far as the Hunt thing isconcerned and that money thing, I didn't, Ididn't get the feeling you were dealing the options nearly so much as I had the feeling that you were trying to smoke out what, what courses of procedure would come...PRESIDENT:Well, it's not only that, but I was also saying,"Well, this is a National Security matter, it'svery serious."HALDEMAN:That's right.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.13PRESIDENT:"And if, uh, if, uh, if necessary, you've gotta,we, maybe we ought to do something about -can't somebody talk to &#8218;em? Let Colson talk to him." You know, I said, "Lower that.&#64258; Uh, and, uh, and, and, then Dean said, "Well Hunt, Hunt won't want, uh, reveal the National Security thingbecause, uh, that's not in his interest, right?&#64258;And, uh, (unintelligible), but on the money thing and so forth, uh, then he talked about that he, Dean, had called Mitchell.HALDEMAN:So if you were exploring the money thing, Iwould try and see what he, what he was doing'cause he's raised earlier the problem of money.You didn't understand what all that was about and what the process was. You asked, "Like how do you mean go along? What are you gonna do with money? What...," You know. Dean said, "Well LaRue handles it, that he left it around at, at uh, uh, telephone booths."PRESIDENT:That's the first time I ever knew LaRue wasinvolved in trying to cover it.HALDEMAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:That's really first time I really ever knew whohandled money or what, or anything. I had read, I shouldn't act dumb, I had read that Mrs. Hunt,that these Cubans got money in bags in(unintelligle). I also read, however, that there was a Cuban Committee, that's how that thing came in there. And, uh, the Pappas thing, the Pappas thing was there but on that -my conversation on Pappas is pretty -I think, uh...HALDEMAN:Well, and Pappas was the number one of a numberof major contributors that we met with. That's right.PRESIDENT:No, no that's right. And I say, "Yes, I knowabout Pappas (unintelligible) Pappas and I didn't discuss this, believe me."HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) just knew that Pappas was(unintelligible) and helping with the campaigning.PRESIDENT:That's right. Well, but Pappas was, said he washelping on, uh...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.14HALDEMAN:Helping Mitchell?PRESIDENT:Helping Mitchell on certain things and I said,"Well, that's fine, thank you.&#64258; But I, he didn't tell me what it was.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:I think it's a matter of fact though that somebody said be sure to talk to Pappas because he'sbeing very helpful on the, uh, Watergate thing. Uh, (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:I don't think I said Watergate thing. I said, Isaid Mitchell wants you to be sure and talk to Pappas. He's very helpful.PRESIDENT:Very helpful.HALDEMAN:Well, I may have said helpful in raising moneyfor the pris --, for the defense. You see I, I...PRESIDENT:Did you go over that point with your lawyertoday, that point that the defendants...HALDEMAN:Yeah, some. They're, they're...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible), huh.HALDEMAN:...still organizing. PRESIDENT:Give me a little run down on your lawyers if youwouldn't mind. See if there's anything that they've added.HALDEMAN:No.PRESIDENT:I don't...HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) they were going through justdetails today. And, uh,PRESIDENT:That's good. HALDEMAN:...uh, they're going to see the U.S. Attorneythis afternoon, I mean they have to be over...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:...in court for something else anyway.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.15PRESIDENT:They're gonna make their move, (unintelligible)what they're gonna do.HALDEMAN:They're gonna go in and ask if we could... PRESIDENT:Be heard. HALDEMAN:...be given an earlier appointment. PRESIDENT:Appointment first.HALDEMAN:Right. They feel, they're (unintelligible) theappointment. They want very much to get, a, a, private meeting.PRESIDENT:Oh, yes. HALDEMAN:Before we get to the Grand Jury. PRESIDENT:Oh, yes.HALDEMAN:They're afraid if they push for the Grand Jurythe guy'll say, "Well fine, just bring them into the Grand Jury tomorrow morning."PRESIDENT:That's right. That's right. HALDEMAN:We don't want that. PRESIDENT:That's right. Well, that's the line Petersentold me, appointment first. And I said, "Fine,we should ask for an appointment. It's beingdone."HALDEMAN:Their position is we don't, we should not thenask for the Grand Jury. We've already made the point to send, uh, Petersen as a guest of the Grand Jury, and what we should be seeking now isthe appointment with the prosecutor, which iswhat Petersen told you to have us do.PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:Then following that, it's up to -you see,they're very, they get to sit in, the lawyers sit in on the appointment.PRESIDENT:That's right.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.16HALDEMAN:They w ant to be there. They don't, they aren'tthere with the Grand Jury. They want to be there and try and smoke out other things. Now, they very much do not want the appointment until you get, uh, the thing from Petersen on whether it should, what he sees as the, as the potentialcharges on us, posing any problems(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Right. That's right. HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) is supposed to be in tomorrow.And so they will seek an appointment, but then they'll say that we can't work it out untilMonday or Tuesday.PRESIDENT:Good. HALDEMAN:Or something like that. Which, which is truebecause I'll be going to Mississippi tomorrow so IPRESIDENT:Right, you go to Mississippi, by all means. HALDEMAN:And, uh, uh,...PRESIDENT:Ehrlichman should go too.HALDEMAN:No, he wouldn't normally go. PRESIDENT:He shouldn't go then. HALDEMAN:It wouldn't bother if he does. PRESIDENT:Fine.(20 second pause)PRESIDENT:They'll have Colson. At least in this instance.It's, uh -well Colson basically, nobody else. Let's face it, with all that he's done.HALDEMAN:Yeah, he is but, I, I really... PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:...wish he'd quit tryin' to help.PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah, yeah, but I mean, it's a White Housein one sense b-b-, but here, he's trying to help to nail Liddy. Held better watch out, Dean will try to nail him.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.17HALDEMAN:Uh, yeah and, or Dean will lash back. Now, Deanwill read this and figure out. He asked us if (unintelligible) either came from Colson or Ehrlichman or both. 'Cause it nails Dean, kills Colson, and to a degree kills Ehrlichman.PRESIDENT:What it says about Ehrlichman is true, is itnot?HALDEMAN:I guess so. PRESIDENT:That Ehrlichman, uh... HALDEMAN:Well, he didn't really confront Dean withcharges.PRESIDENT:No.HALDEMAN:What Ehrlichman did is say -he sort of did'cause he said, "Here's the way the thing stacks up.&#64258; I don't think he confronted him with him having advance knowledge because Ehrlichman still doesn't think he did have advance...PRESIDENT:That's right. Well. Well, Dean... HALDEMAN:In fact, these charges are not (unintelligible)that Dean had advance knowledgeno. Deanordered Hunt out of the countrynow that's true, but then he rescinded the order.PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:Dean's trying to hang that order on Ehrlichman. PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:I guess Ehrlichman's trying to hang it on Dean.And Dean had authorized payments to the defense to keep their mouths shut (unintelligible). I don't think you (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Well I, I don't know that Dean tried to do that. HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Dean can say, said very well, "No, I didn't dothat for that purpose."HALDEMAN:He may, he may have a real problem with thatthough because, in that he, he apparently is speaking directly with the lawyers, which I didn't know.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.18PRESIDENT:Dean. That's what...HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). LaRue. PRESIDENT:Oh. HALDEMAN:That fact that some (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Well, LaRue's, LaRue's gonna have to telleverything. He's gonna have to plead guilty inorder, that's for sure. Whoever dealt with himis gonna come out.HALDEMAN:Well, I don't know. I, I assume that Dean dealt-well, I'm sure he had conversations with him and I assume he dealt with him.PRESIDENT:You didn't have (unintelligible) or Ehrlichman?HALDEMAN:I don't believe so.PRESIDENT:Needless to say I...(18 second pause)HALDEMAN:Did you know how, I, I sure as hell don't think. PRESIDENT:LaRue didn't call you and say that we need moneyfor the defendants?HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) because it, it wasn't...PRESIDENT:But on that point, Bob, you've got to certainlysay your, your story still is I was helping (unintelligible) humanitarian reasons. That's, that's what your counsel says, don't they?HALDEMAN:Legal fees. PRESIDENT:Huh?HALDEMAN:And legal fees, concerned about their(unintelligible). But I'm sure (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:How 'bout the fifty, about the 350, was that(unintelligible)?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.19HALDEMAN:Sure. Well, no, the 350, I, the 350 came up ina separate context from their need for money at first which was the question what do we do with this money. And I said, "It should be turned over to the Committee."PRESIDENT:But who asked you that?HALDEMAN:Strachan.PRESIDENT:Strachan. Right. HALDEMAN:We, I'd forgotten we had the money. PRESIDENT:Strachan... HALDEMAN:Strachan was through closing on his files hereand getting ready to leave.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:And he said, "What do I do with the 350?&#64258; And Isaid, "Good Lord, I'd forgotten we had it.&#64258; That should go over to the Committee. Get it over there quickly. We don't want to be sittin' around here holdin' the trash.&#64258; And I said to him, he says, and this fits together, I told himto talk to Dean and work out a way of, ofgetting it over there. And he assumed that, that by that I was saying, work out the legal arrangements because we...PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:got to get, got to get that taken care of. Andso he did. And Dean didn't get a, didn't get itmoved over. Then Dean, the next I know is Dean is saying to me, "We need money, daily money for the defendants.&#64258; And I say, "Well, what about, uh, the 350 thing, don't they have that?" He said, "No we haven't been able to get it overthere.&#64258; And I say, "Well we got two needs thatboth fit. We want to get rid of the money and they need money...PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:...at the Committee, so why don't we try andwork that out."PRESIDENT:Right.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.20HALDEMAN:Uh, Dean indicates in the middle of this, that'swhere there's a discrepancy and I've been checking this -that's one of the facts that I've had the lawyers, try to work out -is this point that you say Petersen says that Dean says that forty thousand got (unintelligible) before theelection.PRESIDENT:That was just dropped in some place, Peter--,Dean told me that.HALDEMAN:I, well, it's not true. I checked that fact andno money, the date -all that money was held over in Arlington in a safe deposit box untilNovember 28th, and on November 28th it wasturned over to Strachan.PRESIDENT:But your thought was... HALDEMAN:Now, there's a problem there because Strachan isnot sure, he says, what he did with the bag of money when it was turned over to him. Whether he put it in his safe here or whether he gave itto John Dean. And he says he may have given itto Dean.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) speaking or all the 300, ratherthan LaRue. I though you said...HALDEMAN:Oh no, ultimately, he knows he gave it to LaRue.He may have, when he first got it, given it toDean on the grounds that uh, I had told him workout with Dean a way of getting it over there. So the money came, he said to Dean, "Here's the money to get over there," and then Dean -he's not sure whether he put it immediately in the safe or whether he gave it to Dean and Dean heldit for a while and then gave it back to him toput in the safe. Now there's a potential which is (unintelligible) out here. I have no reason to believe it's, it's the case but I have no reason to believe it is not, which is that he did give it to Dean and that Dean used it inpiecemeal chunks, took money out of it to usefor the, the payments to LaRue.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Gave it to him when? This would be when? HALDEMAN:After November 28th, 'cause he didn't have it&#8218;til...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.21PRESIDENT:Why didn't he have it before November 28th?HALDEMAN:Because it, the subject never came up. It wassitting over in the safe deposit box.PRESIDENT:That's your best recollection of the money? HALDEMAN:I don't have any recollections. I had nothingto do...PRESIDENT:Strachan.HALDEMAN:That's what I'm told. PRESIDENT:Strachan told you. HALDEMAN:I'm told independently by Strachan and byButterfield. You see, Strachan couldn't get it out of the box, only Butterfield could get itout.PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:Or Butterfeild's friend whose box it was. ButLaRue, to take the money out of the box, had to meet Butterfield's friend and Butterfield. And Butterfield says that there was one withdrawal in May, he said, 22 thousand.PRESIDENT:Alright.HALDEMAN:And there was no other withdrawal until thetotal thing was taken out on November 28th. He's the one that supplies that date. Strachan says he doesn't know what the date was, but he says it was after the election.PRESIDENT:Butterfield's memory would be God-damn clear.He (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Butterfield's a brilliant, precise,(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:So that would make it here the question of fortythousand before.HALDEMAN:Before the election.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.22PRESIDENT:Just don't -on that one, let me say, I just haveno, I'm not sure of anything on that at all. because he stated that some before and some after, but Dean may be wrong.HALDEMAN:Well, there's another thing that's logged inhere that I wasn't aware of, which is that Deanapparently made the point that either Strachanor Higby, at one point, that he would have to mortgage his house in order to get money to keep this thing going. It would indicate that Dean was up to his ass in personal efforts to supply this money and that as he got super desperate,would come back to whatever source he could get.Well, the fact he has Dean...PRESIDENT:Wait a second. (Unintelligible) mortgage hishouse?HALDEMAN:He made that comment. I don't know whether thatwas a facetious comment or, or a, uh,PRESIDENT:But he told Higby?HALDEMAN:No, I'm not sure which. (Pause) But, hesaid...(20-second pause)HALDEMAN:Dean said when they ran out of Kalmbach money -Iplayed this part back, made more notes on it. Incidentally, I played the earlier part back to take more notes, take a look though added(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:Hunt getting out by Christmas. Uh, Dean saidwhen they ran out of Kalmbach money, they came down here for 350 that was here. I had to explain what it was for. But he's -they'remaking the case that he told Dean why he wasgetting the money. And I said that was sent to LaRue where it belonged. I said, but it was sent in pieces, although the balance was all returned to LaRue, but there was no receipt. We couldn't go through piecemeal giving -no, Dean had sensed-we couldn't continue with piecemeal giving,because I'd have to tell Haldeman why I needed it and he'd get Strachan to go up in the safe. Every time I asked, I had to get Strachan to go to the safe and then have him take it to LaRue, which was a forever operation. Now that (unintelligible) it has to be the DeanAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.23HALDEMAN(CONTINUED):effort to establish a line different from thefact, because it was not taken out in chunks. But if in fact Dean held the money at some period of time, he may have taken chunks out because Strachan did not count the total.Strachan counted out 40,000 when he delivered40,000 because he was told by Dean to deliver him 40,000. This was in January. So Strachan had been holding this money, or someone had, from November through December and into January.PRESIDENT:Oh, it wasn't delivered on November 28th?HALDEMAN:It was delivered to Strachan on November 28th byAlex.PRESIDENT:Oh. HALDEMAN:And it was not delivered to LaRue until January. PRESIDENT:Why wasn't it delivered to Strachan earlier? HALDEMAN:Because Strachan was clearing out his files andgetting ready to leave and asked me what to dowith the money. I said, "Get it back to theCommittee.&#64258; So, Strachan called Alex and said, "Give me the money, I have to get it back to the Committee."PRESIDENT:Okay. HALDEMAN:Then he got it and he thinks, because I toldhim, you know, work it out with Dean, that hemay have given it to Dean, but he's not sure. In any event, at some point, it ended up in his safe. If he gave it to Dean, he got it back from Dean and put it in his safe. Because when time came in January to deliver the 40,000,Strachan went to his safe and got out 40,000 andtook it to LaRue. And then he says -his recollection is three days later. Dean said, "Deliver the balance to LaRue without counting it, so he doesn't knowAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.24HALDEMANwhat was in and what was left (unintelligible).(CONTINUED):And he asked for a, a receipt for 350 from LaRueand LaRue said, "I'm not gonna give you a receipt, this meeting never happened.&#64258; So Strachan came back and reported to Dean.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) Strachan.HALDEMAN:Came back and reported to Dean,, "LaRue said hewill not give me a receipt and that the meeting didn't happen.&#64258; And Dean,said, "That's okay, I'll work it out.&#64258; And that's, the end of the matter as far as Strachan is concerned, all he knew.PRESIDENT:Well, about the, that (unintelligible), the40,000 thing before the election and so forth. Forty thousand is the figure that Dean knew was supposed to be given before the election (unintelligible) he gave forty and that, that was the forty (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Well, it wasn't before the election(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:I understand, I understand, the(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:And also if Dean was tapping this money, if, ifStrachan had given it to Dean and Dean was tapping it, it had to have been in December.PRESIDENT:But if Strachan didn't have it...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.25HALDEMAN:Strachan didn't get it until November 28th, soit can't have been continually, it can't have been used before the election. I don't know what the, why that's significant but (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:I understand.HALDEMAN:It's only significant 'cause, 'cause I saidthat's what the facts are.PRESIDENT:If this is money for fees even after theelection, after they had been convicted is that right, or pled or, what the hell was that (unintelligible). Whether (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:I don't know when they were -convicted. Well, Ishouldn't (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Well before they were... HALDEMAN:I think it was in January -it was before theywere convicted.PRESIDENT:Before the judge, uh, laid the sentence. So, itwas still when they needed money, let's face it.As far as we're concerned, Bob, it looks(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Well, they still owe legal fees, as we know.Their lawyers are still saying they haven't been paid.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) money to sue. (pause)(Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Hum. On the other hand, why do we think their,uh, legal fees and so forth, it was also for support of the families, (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:That's what I was told. I didn't question anyof this. I didn't get into what, any details.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.26PRESIDENT:Dean told you that?HALDEMAN:What he said is, "We've got to have money forthese guys they're, they're raising cane about family support and their legal fees-about taking care of their families and their legal fees.&#64258; Now, at that point, they were expecting to pleadguilty and go to jail.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Right, right, right, right, right. HALDEMAN:Now see, the sentencing, the sentencing wasn'tuntil March because that March 21st meeting was the sentencing, Hunt's sentencing was going to be on March 23rd. So this was long before that.PRESIDENT:The other part of your (unintelligible) Siricathing (unintelligible). But if you talk to your lawyers about your furnishing of the money and so forth, uh, uh,,what is their, what is their latest, uh, uh, feeling as to what the hell your defense is on that point?HALDEMAN:Well, they don't feel I have, they don't feel Ine--, have a defense because they, I don't, theydon't feel there's a charge.PRESIDENT:Conspiracy to (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:They can't make that. PRESIDENT:Why can't they make it? HALDEMAN:Because there's -be no way that I intend to(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) about his stating that(unintelligible) one of the lawyers (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:They feel I have (A),no motivation to keep himquiet and, (B),uh, no intent to.PRESIDENT:After the election, that's right. Why doesn'tStrachan tell it all, why -you've been asking to get the God damn thing done, right?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.27HALDEMAN:I never intended he would plead guilty.PRESIDENT:He hasn't pleaded guilty. But (unintelligible)and pleading guilty or the question is whether he'll talk.HALDEMAN:Yeah and I, in the first place, I think, as faras I knew, there was no danger in their talk inganyway. (Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:No real, real (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:That's something incidental, but it's still amystery to me. I don't -why we care if the Cubans talk. Unless it's about the National Security stuff about the other jobs we did.PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:Because... PRESIDENT:Well, that's what, quite a dif--, conversationdiffers, because it is foul. It was about the operation.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)... PRESIDENT:Things that we did and that's why we discussedit awhile.HALDEMAN:...had to do with what he did at -not -had to dowith what he did at the White House though, not what he did in, in, in...PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:...in, in this case.PRESIDENT:That's right, not obstruction of justice.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.28HALDEMAN:No 'cause if it was obstruction of justice, itwas obstruction of justice on a charge not yet filed, which is not obstruction of justice. The charge that he had burglarized the Ellsberg.PRESIDENT:But even then, we didn't (unintelligible). Deansays, "Well I called Pappas and I told him aboutyour other trump card.&#64258; He naturally(unintelligible) lawyers all this obviously. Called, uh, Pappas.HALDEMAN:Well the other thing is that your dealing withthe facts here. You're looking at...PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:...actual things that were said. Dean will bedealing with how he wants to construe those facts and that may not come out exactly the same way. And Dean may be telling his lawyers and may be thinking in his own mind a lot worse than what really happened. What do you think the President instructed him to do in this sort ofthing (unintelligible). He said we have to(unintelligible) out, all this sort of thing which is (unintelligible), he didn't. We've just explored segments and we get to the thing somewhere.PRESIDENT:Where, where he pledged this to you?HALDEMAN:Where he puts it to us. I think then we mayhave to pull out this tape recording, and let'em hear it. Somebody like the Chief Justice or somebody, you know. Just, uh...PRESIDENT:It's better if you can give your recollectionnow, that's the important part. And thenafterwards, afterwards Ehrlichman said "We willnot, there's no dice (unintelligible)." Right, on that?HALDEMAN:Yeah, I guess. PRESIDENT:So he said, you, you did get...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.29HALDEMAN:Oh, yeah. Ehrlich--, Ehrlichman, Ehrlichman tome, what I heard on that from Ehrlichman's viewpoint was screw him.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Which surprised me, to be perfectly frank,because I though Ehrlichman would be concernedabout it and he wasn't. He really cold cockedit to the extent that it surprised me very much and he checked withREEL 2 BEGINS Krogh who -see this refreshed me now. Deanthinks this thing here about Krogh being interrible, you know really trouble. AndEhrlichman says, "f talked to Krogh and he doesn't think he's gonna be in trouble at all.REEL 1 ENDSAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.30HALDEMAN:(CONT.)And it's not -Dean was making Krogh as beingtrembling with agony, crazy and all sorts of things. Couldn't live with himself, hadn't slept a night.PRESIDENT:Is this true, or, or what does (unintelligible)with Krogh?HALDEMAN:Well, Ehrlichman says, says Krogh has noproblem. He said it then, he says it now. He talked with Krogh. Krogh's had two hours with 'em.PRESIDENT:Glanzer?HALDEMAN:No. I guess it was the Senate Committee.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) very sad. This stuff doesn'tinvolve the campaign does it? Does it involve the Watergate?HALDEMAN:It involves National Security and the thing, ithad to do with people totally unrelated to the campaign.PRESIDENT:I think part of it, I understand.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Yeah. Right. HALDEMAN:And that's true. PRESIDENT:Absolutely true and we have it--God damn rights,we're gonna stick hard on that.HALDEMAN:For that reason, maybe I just don't understandit, but I'm not at all sure that this whole Ellsberg thing coming out is bad.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.31PRESIDENT:Why? (unintelligible) Kleindienst(unintelligible). Kleindienst a call. Attorney General Kleindienst please. Thank God you got this tape. Good this is something which this doesn't affect. Basically the tape is the kind of a talk that you, you really have down thatthe President ought to have licked the son-of-abitch when he's trying to find out. Even though I didn't know he was a son-of-a-bitch. What the hellHALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) longer 'cause... PRESIDENT:...what the hell...HALDEMAN:...(Unintelligible) this guy disentangled ithimself. (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:What the hell the facts were. What the factswere. We're talking about who was in. I had to find out about you and Ehrlichman. Dean felt he was letting it all out.HALDEMAN:And the thing that startled you is, and, and itdid, clearly, was he said, "Some people may goto jail.&#64258; You said, "Who?&#64258; And he said, "Well me to begin with."PRESIDENT:And I said-- HALDEMAN:And that really jarred you. You said, "Oh, hellno.&#64258; You, you can't (unintelligible). I meanclearly it was...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...it was--you could, you could tell bylistening to the tape, it, it startled, came as a blow to you.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.32PRESIDENT:Which means that he never told me before aboutthis sort of thing.HALDEMAN:Dean never told you beforehand. Dean, as soonas he told you that, a thought process starts in your mind. "What the hell, you know, who am I dealing with here? What's going on.&#64258; Becauseall--he was always talk--he was thedispassionate operator and you knew he was carrying some water on (unintelligible) keep Mitchell on, on, for example.PRESIDENT:And, and talking to all the, our White HousepeopleHALDEMAN:But you didn't know he was in, in(unintelligible)PRESIDENT:...and, and (unintelligible), and for carryingsitting in there, things and so forth. Getting the FBI reports, making reports to me. That was my (unintelligible). I didn't--when they talked about the load, I was not thinking basically,Bob, of the load taking care of defendants. Henever told me that until this damn conversation was made&#352;in February, I don't know.HALDEMAN:well, that isn't the load. That, that he wasreally carrying the load. He was carrying this, trying to keep the whole thing on track as hehad all these people lying, uh, bouncing outwith all sorts of different tales. (24 second pause)PRESIDENT:My God, he should have come to us earlier andsaid--some, some--But Dean, Dean, too, has told you and John, "What the hell, all we're doinghere is protecting John Mitchell." Correct?HALDEMAN:We know that, too. PRESIDENT:But Bob, I think--we had several conversationson that point. Remember? In February, right.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.33PRESIDENT:You said, "This whole God-damned thing is(CONT)about Mitchell. Why doesn't Mitchell get out?&#64258;And&#352;(Telephone Rings)PRESIDENT:Hello. AG? Yeah, I said AG. Aren't youAttorney General? Right. I wanted to get, uh,Dick Byrd on, uh, the Colson matter. Oh, okay,boy. Um hum. Yeah, I probably, uh, thought you'd be there. Oh, uh. why did I give you a call, uh. Uh, yeah. (Unintelligible). Yeah. Um. Yeah. All I wanta know is procedure, you know. Let me say, it's six-of-one andhalf-a-dozen other, Dick, uh, uh, as far as I'mconcerned. Let's get the God-damned thing hung out there. Yeah. That's right. That's right. Right, right, right. You do that, and we'll, uh, get the word. Fine. And as far as you're concerned, Dick, there's two possibilities. You,you can go on (unintelligible/REMOVED). Okay.(Hangs up telephone)PRESIDENT:Hotter than hell. It was now, or after--thejury. What the hell. Comes down to bust the Ellsberg case. That ain't all bad either, is it?HALDEMAN:You know, it, it'd be nice if they could convict&#8218;em. (Unintelligible) see if they're gonna geta conviction, otherwise it'd be too bad (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Who's gonna talk if it didn't work? HALDEMAN:Well, if it wasn't in connection with the legalcase, it was in connection with the NationalSecurity problems here.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.34PRESIDENT:I, I (unintelligible) wondering why(unintelligible) Ellsberg's psychiatrist trying to stick it. You--HALDEMAN:I can't figure that either. Some of this stuffin justPRESIDENT:Bizarre.HALDEMAN:...completely beyond belief.PRESIDENT:Trying to discredit Ellsberg. HALDEMAN:Dean also talks in here about a second story jobat Brookings.PRESIDENT:But they didn't do it. HALDEMAN:which they didn't do. It's uhPRESIDENT:Yeah. And something in Georgetown, which theydidn't do.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:I think Ehrlichman told me that. HALDEMAN:Is that right?PRESIDENT:Ehrlichman tells me (unintelligible/REMOVED).(24 second pause)PRESIDENT:Well, whatever Hunt says, could say-certainlythere's no motivation for him. Given immunity (unintelligible) say what he did for the National Security people. That, that, uh, say(unintelligible/REMOVED).HALDEMAN:He does in terms of whether or not(unintelligible) is paid or not--PRESIDENT:That, we really don't know. And that'sAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.35PRESIDENT(CONT.)a curious thing that Dean got in there about theGreek-bearing case. He said he called Mitchell and Martha was there.HALDEMAN:He said Martha obviously had picked up the otherline, so he talked in code. I remember this.PRESIDENT:And he said-HALDEMAN:I had forgotten. PRESIDENT:I had forgotten. HALDEMAN:When I heard the tape (unintelligible)completely.PRESIDENT:And he said, uh, and he, and he, he said toJohn, he said, uh, "the Greek," which(unintelligible) Pappas.HALDEMAN:"Did you talk to the Greek?&#64258; John said, "Yes.&#64258;He said, "Is the Greek bearing gifts?&#64258; "I'll call you on that tomorrow."PRESIDENT:Oh.(Pause)PRESIDENT:Dean can charge--HALDEMAN:It's so weird, you know. Stuff... PRESIDENT:Dean- HALDEMAN:...you didn't understand that. You didn'tunderstand at the time, too.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:Who was doing what.PRESIDENT:Dean can charge for his part in our conversationhere that, uh, I knew that Pappas(unintelligible/REMOVED).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.36HALDEMAN:Well, you can charge it. Sure, you can chargeit all you want.PRESIDENT:What would your answer be? HALDEMAN:It would be that he, he told you that Mitchellhad been in contact with Pappas. You had no idea what the hell it's about. He didn't tell you.PRESIDENT:Never discussed it.HALDEMAN:But again, you, you were running out this thing,this string, where did it go.PRESIDENT:I heard it all on that one day. Well, inretrospect, he hadn't done many things right in this instance, but, uh, I do think that,(unintelligible/REMOVED).HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:I can't believe (unintelligible) that on March21st (unintelligible). Well, don't you agree?HALDEMAN:oh, yeah.(21 second pause)HALDEMAN:Of course it may be hard to answer at somepoint, why didn't you bring in a special prosecutor into the White House and the special investigator--or into the (unintelligible) special prosecutor. Why did you keep it to allthe people who were there?PRESIDENT:Why didn't I or why didn't I? HALDEMAN:Well, why didn't you?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.37PRESIDENT:I discussed it with people. They, uh,uh,--Kleindienst of course suggested the special prosecutor. (Unintelligible). But I discussed it and, uh, did not bring in a special prosecutor because the prosecuting team satisfied me that they were doing their job.Uh. it'd take months for them to get, you know,uh, to where--HALDEMAN:Get at them. PRESIDENT:Right. In other words, I had faith in theprosecuting team. That's really--that is the reason, as you know.HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Sure, you could say why didn't I appoint acommission?HALDEMAN:That was as of the, uh, fourt--15th of Mar--ofApril.PRESIDENT:Dean didn't recommend a special prosecutor. HALDEMAN:No.PRESIDENT:See.HALDEMAN:well, yeah, there was some discussion of thespecial prosecutor. How (unintelligible)--PRESIDENT:How? No. HALDEMAN:You were just, you were considering variousalternatives.PRESIDENT:Right. I considered the special prosecutor. Iconsidered the Presidential commission. I considered, you know, three judges, so forthAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.38PRESIDENT(CONT.)and so on. And,, uh, I decided against it dueto the fact that I satisfied myself that the dist--that the so-and-so was doing, doingthe job and, uh, course on the, uh...HALDEMAN:That's it--you prob--well, see how they're goingto undermine that though byPRESIDENT:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;HALDEMAN:PRESIDENT:Let me put it this way, Bob, the specialprosecutor can, will wash away by terms of what the Grand Jury does know when they indict a former Attorney General of the United States, God damn it. That shows that we're investi--that this Administration's not coveringup any longer. You know what I mean. And thatthe prosecution did its job.HALDEMAN:Right. PRESIDENT:Sure, you can second guess that, too, all theway through, but I, I, I, listen I again, I was relying on Dean. I was frankly relying onEhrlichman, too. You know, both of themrecommended it. Dean didn't want me to have a special prosecutor, did he?HALDEMAN:I don't think so. PRESIDENT:Well. HALDEMAN:I think he was in control. He got--he didn'twant a special grand jury (unintelligible) asecond grand jury either. (Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)Cancer at the heart of thePresidency. I remember when he did spell it out and what to do about it.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.39PRESIDENT:Well, look at it from his standpoint. He didplay a, a game, trivia, diabolical, so forth and so on, but he did it 'cause he thought it was necessary. Everbody (unintelligible). He didn't want Mitchell indicted. He didn't want this whole thing, you know, the, splattered allov ' er, and then he finally came in to see me.He, himself made a command decision on the 21st of March and told me what the hell the point was. And I said, "Oh. go up and try to write it up.&#64258; When he got up there, he couldn't write it up, but he did do that, but by God I have tolook after myself. He went to the lawyers.They told the, told the Grand Jury.HALDEMAN:The longer he worked on it up at Camp David, themore he became convinced he's got to get himself a lawyer. That's clear. You know why people kept the secrets from you? (Unintelligible) it was clear he had -he was trying to use cover-upwhile getting himself a lawyer, he, he gave youcriminal legal advice.PRESIDENT:He did what? HALDEMAN:He could get -he kept saying you need a criminallawyerPRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:... to advise on what's involved. He said,"The President can't hire one 'cause that'll look bad. I could hire one and the President heed his advice."PRESIDENT:Didn't Dean, at one time, give us an analysis ofthe law with regard to uh (Pause)PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible), PRESIDENT:I, I, I kept coming to that. Maybe T came tothat before the 21st.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.15HALDEMAN:You see, he did more about what was done than Idid. Much more than you did. And was answering from a criminal viewpoint of his office, rather than the viewpoint of, of (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:I think we've got to assume that, thatI-well,we've gotta check this fact, that, uh, that Deanmust have discussed with us, Bob, Dean orsomebody--before the 21st of March, payments to the defendants, and basically the 350 and all that. You know...HALDEMAN:I don't think so. PRESIDENT:Obstruction of Justice and so forth.HALDEMAN:I don't think so. I can, I can go back to itand find out.PRESIDENT:No. We will some day, maybe. HALDEMAN:Twelve hours of listening to be worked on. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:I don't think, I don't PRESIDENT:I don't think it's gonna make a hell of a lot ofdifference.HALDEMAN:All that time you were listening to damn Dean.With him, it was a differentPRESIDENT:There were different things to, uh HALDEMAN:You were--Why don't you get a quick report fromhim or something. February 27th.PRESIDENT:Very--that's, uh, the first time it happened.HALDEMAN:Yeah.(Pause)APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.41PRESIDENT:That is, that's when I told Ehrlichman I neededto, uh, get the hell out of this thing.(Pause)HALDEMAN:Well, somewhere there in early March, it wasearly March, you jumped up--you told me several times, "Tell Colson not to deal with Ehrlichmanor me, or with you on the Watergate thing. Goto Dean," Dean was handlingPRESIDENT:Correct. HALDEMAN:...Watergate. Then you got to the thing whenyou sort of had a daily report from him.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Ten in the morning for about--in the morning forhalf an hour, popping in for five, ten minutes, couple times during the day. (Pause)PRESIDENT:Well, I think probably, and my guess is thatwhen the McCord thing broke, particularly with the defendants, I must have asked Dean at that time. I must have, about what about(unintelligible). But he never told me, though,in my, my recollection. My recollection is totally blank. You know. The problem I've got is the same problem you've got. I just got too many other things on my mind, Bob, and T don't remember. McCord, uh, when was it McCord talked(unintelligible/REMOVED). I was in Florida. Iknow that.HALDEMAN:You were in Florida when the, McCord talked. PRESIDENT:Definitely. &#8218;Cause Ehrlichman called and I toldhim that. So whatever (unintelligible) I was in Florida.HALDEMAN:Must have been after this.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.42HALDEMAN:No, must have been after this meeting with Dean.McCord talked to on the day of the sentencing, didn't he? Sure. Remember he sent a letter and, uh, that, yeah, uh, so it was that weekend. It was the 23rd. And Dean went up to Camp David to--and you were in Florida.PRESIDENT:Well, Dean charged, uh, McCord charged Dean.HALDEMAN:Did McCord charge? PRESIDENT:Dean went to Camp David. Somebody charged him.Pat Gray charged him of being a liar. That was, uh...HALDEMAN:McCord's sentencing was about the same time. Hewas, he, he, he, charged him of being a liar onthe 22nd because it was while we were sitting here. We got the--while we were in our other meeting. We got a wire paper. Someone brought a wire paper saying he was...PRESIDENT:That Mitchell. HALDEMAN:Yeah. And you called Kleindienst while we werein here.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:That wasn't about the wire thing, that was aboutthe, uh, uh, Dean with Ervin.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Dean with Ervin. See, we were still on--themain subject was (unintelligible)...PRESIDENT:...The main subject was not frankly it was, itwas Bittman. Well, hell, a little scrap all the time.HALDEMAN:It wasn't at all. PRESIDENT:That was, uh, basically, the whole meeting with,uh, with Mitchell was with regard to ExecutiveSession, do you remember?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.43HALDEMAN:Yeah, and then it was that weekend that you wentto Key Biscayne--went down Thursday night.PRESIDENT:McCord talked on Friday then. That's what Iheard. What, what's the date on that?HALDEMAN:The 23rd. PRESIDENT:Now that's correct. Dean, at that point, wasthen at Camp David. I think that's what poppedDean loose. That put him in (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Yeah, probably.(18 second pause)HALDEMAN:And you never saw Dean again after that. JustEhrlichman.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). Talk to him on the phone.Well, at Camp David.HALDEMAN:Did you? PRESIDENT:I called him. HALDEMAN:I have got a lot of reports from John Dean, too. PRESIDENT:What were they? What kind of reports would youcall those?HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible/REMOVED). That's when youstarted following the whole thing, when youreally started seeing what the problems were.PRESIDENT:Tell me, just briefly, what they were. HALDEMAN:well PRESIDENT:Dean, you.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)(34 second pause)APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.44PRESIDENT:Well, that's about when he said Magruder wasgonna talk.HALDEMAN:Well, you were at Key Biscayne, you know. Hewent down Thursday night. I stayed here to go to that Rogers' dinner for, uhPRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:...diplomats, diplomats and I came down onFriday...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...morning. PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:And he came over and I went over to your houseat, uh, 1:15 and I was there &#8218;til 6:30.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:And you had me out calling Colson to check outthe question of what he had really said to Bittman and, uh...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:You had Mitchell to see what McCord was gonnasay because we had heard, you know.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:That and you had me to check with Moore onwhether we'd probably react to that McCord thing.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:He said we don't react to a prisoner'sstatement. Then he talked with Dean, and, uh, Dean was giving his evaluation of what McCord might say. (Unintelligible) no significance to that. He said--well, one thing he does say that's interesting after looking back. He saidwe should not overreact. We should watch andwait, but, uh, McCord'sAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.45HALDEMAN(CONT).greatest danger to us is post-June 17th 'causehe's hit on Dean&#8482;s greatest concern, obstruction The problem now is we're one step behind. Then Ron came in and he was there for a while. You had to call Rogers and went through the wholeexecutive privilege business. We changedSpecial Counsel on the 18th, Special Counsel.PRESIDENT:Well, that's good point. HALDEMAN:Then I talked to Dean on the 23rd--that doesn'tstill--on that same evening talked to Dean again. He was trying to figure outalternatives. Said maybe you should send Deanto the Grand Jury and have him tell everything and then let them decide if they want anyone else. He says, "the problem is we've been bailing out everyone else and it's gotten out of hand and compounded the problem." He says, he says "Now we have to protect ourselves because Ieverywhere, but I won't to purge anyone in theWhite House." That was when he wanted to go get immunity and all thatand he said the only problem for the White House is post-June 17th. "We did things to hold down the,the--you know, any going on before the election that are righton the border." He said if, if Dean isimmunized, "If I'm immunized, I could go no further, but then, of course, I'd have to be canned (unintelligible) Grand Jury testimony. He said, "I feel a higher loyalty to, uh, than just to Mitchell and I'm concerned partly aboutmy own ass, so I could go for informalimmunity."PRESIDENT:Well, is that our mistake, not giving it to him?well, let me hassle this thing just a bit. No.HALDEMAN:Well, then we rattle along through thatweekend...PRESIDENT:Let me, let me just answer my own question. Uh,you know, we didn't do it, for the reasons we all know. The point is that immunizing him would be for the purpose of protecting, Bob, other people in the White House and higher up?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.46HALDEMAN:Yes, sir. And we didn't, and we didn't need it.PRESIDENT:Huh? HALDEMAN:And we didn't need it. PRESIDENT:Not only didn't need it, but, but it would havebeen wrong, God damn it, that's the point.HALDEMAN:So then on the 25thPRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:...is the next time I talk to Dean, which shouldbe Sunday, I guess. (Unintelligible) and he says, "I see signs of the domino theory here. Hunt had dealings with the Cubans&#64258;. Dean, he says,"Hunt had dealings with the Cubans. I didnot, I mean did not. LaRue may have.&#64258; Sothat's how far he was letting me in on it now. He said, "I think we should take action before Thursday. Let it all come out Thursday. For example, Dean's at the Grand Jury. If we try to fight it, we'll eventually lose. Colson thinks we should fight it but he doesn't know the wholepicture (Unintelligible).&#64258; And, uh, well, itwas before Thursday because that's when McCord was gonna go before Sirica or something. He said, "Who McCord names will not be made public Thursday.&#64258; He said, "I have no knowledge of what Mitchell knows or what he did, nor do Ihave any knowledge of what Jeb does or what hedid and I also don't know the full extent of Gordon Strachan's knowledge." Same. Same. Next day, I talked to Dean in the morning. He calls to give me a report. You're still at Key Biscayne. "Mitchell has a problem, but he maynot realize it. I don't really know whatMitchell's problem is, but I think I should go to Mitchell and, and ask him if he really wants everybody to go to jail except him. The point is if he would step forward, it would solve a lot..."APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.47PRESIDENT:At that point there never, there never wasHALDEMAN:For example, Jeb said he and Mitchell wereafraid Colson was, were gonna take this fellow, this thing over, so they went in ahead. Probably went ahead with Mitchell's okay. Wouldn't be the first time (unintelligible) up.The real question is why Mitchell was going tosuch great lengths to keep it quiet. The only basis would be that it went higher than. Mitchell, higher than Mitchell.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) I'm sure. HALDEMAN:And then he was thinking about filing a libelsuit. He was all--he had his lawyers tell theWashington Post, so they ran a story about him some time (unintelligible). He said the only problem for us is after the fact (unintelligible) quote legal expenses and personal stuff, close quote, won't wash, he says. Now for him it wouldn't, at that point,because he knew more--but this is the thing, Inever understood, Dean's statements. The only apparent defense is blackmail.PRESIDENT:Well, held already mentioned blackmail to us. HALDEMAN:Then he says PRESIDENT:The 23rd.HALDEMAN:Yeah. Then he said to me, "You should checkwith Ehrlichman and see if he feels Hunt is a threat.&#64258; That was the 26th and I was over at your place for about three hours (unintelligible) the 27th, Ziegler was in and, uh, I called Dean cause we were discussing--andthis is the interesting--I called Dean andcalling at your request to say, "We may move today to send you to the Grand Jury as a public move.&#64258; And see, Ziegler too, was in here trying to decide how to take the step. HeAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.48HALDEMAN:(CONT)was saying maybe we ought to offer Dean to theGrand Jury. "Well, what problems do you have with that?&#64258; Dean said, "I have no problems.&#64258; Then he said, "I just talked with Jeb.&#64258; And that gets into the question of whether there wasone or two meetings about (unintelligible).Said, "There's a problem because Jeb says there's only one and I would have to say there, there are two. So, if I have to go to the Grand Jury, I would have to say something different from what Jeb said. That would create aproblem.&#64258; And, uh, he said, "Maybe the thing isto put out a thing saying I request to appear and we approved on the lawyer-client position. (Unintelligible) it's a tough call on the post-June 17th activities." He said, "If it's political embarrassment though, the Grand Jury is the right forum for us.&#64258; (unintelligible).do the same thing was discussed with(unintelligible). Then he said, "I did review the problem areas." (Unintelligible) is getting down to the paper work. He said, "On the blackmail situation, I was aware that Mitchell and others were being blackmailed by thoseinvolved. I sought to ignore it. I was vagueon the specifics because of it. The first time I knew it was when Mitchell told me the defendants wanted help regarding money for bond, money to raise their bond. That came from Mrs. Hunt, Bittman, Parkinson, Mitchell and LaRue.They were threatening to cause general havoc ifthey weren't helped. Parkinson said he didn't want to be involved any further, so Bittman used O'Brien. O'Brien was unhappy about it, too, but, you know, (unintelligible). O'Brien reported the threats to Mitchell, Magruder andDean. Dean passed it on to some people in thewhite House. After (unintelligible)..."PRESIDENT:Passed it on--he's not referring that to me. HALDEMAN:No. PRESIDENT:That's involved.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.49HALDEMAN:No. He's hanging Ehrlichman and me on that andhe hadn't gotten to the point of reading (unintelligible) yet. He just puts it back. Then he says, "After Mitchell had the original threat, he told Dean to tell Ehrlichman and Haldeman, uh, to use Kalmbach to raise themoney. Ehrlichman called and authorized that.And Kalmbach raised the money and delivered it per instructions to LaRue, about $70,000. Next time there was a trip to be made and there was no money available, Stans and LaRue were aware that there was 350 at the White House forpolling. The White House hadn't spent it andwanted to return it. Only Strachan, with Haldeman's approval, could spend the money. The problem is (unintelligible) would undoubtedly be in the press, so the money sat in Strachan's safe. Mitchell told Dean to ask Haldeman for some of the money (unintelligible) surely thatit, would be replenished. Dean told Haldeman,said this is a bad situation (unintelligible) LaRue or O'Brien says it's a crisis. Haldeman said have Strachan get the money but get it clear as soon as possible. Get all of the money out of here and get a receipt for it. Strachandid, but got no receipt. 'This is, this is his(unintelligible). He said, "I'm not aware of the extent of the threats that were made to the Committee, beyond those two examples. But there were two blackmail threats made directly to the White House: One, Mrs. Hunt and Colson'ssecretary, (unintelligible). Colson didn't knowwhat it was about at first: (Unintelligible) phone calls, (unintelligible) O'Brien; the second was when O'Brien told Dean that Hunt insisted on meeting, sent a message to Dean regarding 72 plus 50 if not received he'dre-consider his options and expose his seamythings abut Ehrlichman and Krogh. nean advised Haldeman and Ehrlichman of this threat. Ehrlichman requested Dean discuss it with Mitchell and Colson. He discussed it with Mitchell, but not Colson. Mitchell said in a meeting later that there was no problem. He'snot in a position to fully evaluate..."APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.50PRESIDENT:That was your...HALDEMAN:"...in a position to fully evaluate aboutblackmail and everyone concerned&#352;-everyone was concerned about dire threats to the White House, but (unintelligible) blackmail we imagined the worst. Now clemency--O'Brien told Dean thatBittman was asked by Hunt to deal with Colson.Ehrlichman said (unintelligible) Bittman, he did. Colson said it was essential that Hunt be given assurance. He, Ehrlichman, agreed. Colson told Bittman he could make no committment, but as a friend, he would assist,(unintelligible) the actual statement. Hunt wassatisfied with this."(Unintelligible). And he said,"There was a problem with why a delay in giving notice to the FBI (unintelligible).&#64258; Dean says that, Gray talked to Ehrlichman'soffice, told them about (unintelligible/REMOVED)crook.&#64258; And that's the end of that phone callthe 26th.PRESIDENT:Boy.(Pause)HALDEMAN:On the 27th, (unintelligible), he says he had along conversation with O'Brien. O'Brien's very distressed with Mitchell. He says Mitchellcould cut the whole thing off if he would juststep forward, did sign off on the Watergate. Jeb told O'Brien and Parkinson he believes that the whole Liddy thing was put together by the White House before it was presented to them. Dean cooked this up probably at Haldeman'sinstructions, the idea of the super-intelligenceoperation.PRESIDENT:Dean is reporting what Jeb says now. HALDEMAN:He's reporting what O'Brien tells him that Jebtells O'Brien. "Mitchell bought it. It was an accomplished fact that the center(unintelligible) and then there was a hiatus.Dean's appeared in Mitchell's office. LiddyAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.51unveiled his plan. Nobody bought the first planand nobody bought the second plan--just lingered. Liddy was pushing to get something done. Colson got into the act, pushing to get something. The final step was when Gordon Strachan called Magruder and said Haldeman toldhim to get this going because the Presidentwanted it.&#64258; Now--See that's the Magruder line Dean was working on at that point.PRESIDENT:H as Magruder changed that line? HALDEMAN:Oh, yeah. Yeah. PRESIDENT:You don't think he says that the President(unintelligible) huh?HALDEMAN:No. But I've got all ~those dates where hetotally says the opposite. Mitchell called Liddy in and read him the riot act because of the poor quality of the stuff they were getting and Dean says, "Here's my theory. I think Mitchell and Magruder have their ass in a sling,they're mixing apples and oranges for their ownprotection. For example, about how little Dean told Liddy regarding Dean's political intelligence regarding demonstrations and so forth I didn't know." Dean says, "I didn't know anything about it. The fact is that the firstmeeting (unintelligible), in other words,absurd. The second meeting, I, Dean got Mitchell off the hook, said the plan was impossible and I told Haldeman afterwards if it's impossible, he should get out. Dean saw the problem and wanted to get ten miles awayfrom it. The problem is Liddy is(unintelligible). O'Brien says Magruder wants to meet, but that's the motive of giving O'Brien the story. He's trying to scare Dean and he.PRESIDENT:Who, O'Brien is?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.52HALDEMAN:No. O'Brien says that's Magruder--and O'Briensays he doesn't really believe Jeb, but he's not sure. He sees this point of mixing apples and oranges. He's very disappointed in Mitchell, but he won't tell him so. "O'Brien suggested that if we want to force this to a head, he,O'Brien, who's retained by the committee, couldwaive his retainer and report to the President on all the facts," which is--in effect is what he did. You see, came out and talked to Ehrlichman.PRESIDENT:O'Brien came out and talked to Ehrlichman?HALDEMAN:Yeah. Dean's report (unintelligible) "Hunt's atthe Grand Jury today. He doesn't know how far it'll go. They'll probably get into the money, but not as desperate today. He's on the brink. Bittman called O'Brien yesterday and said Hunt was shaky. McCord's walking out and Hunt thinks maybe it's his turn. (unintelligible).&#64258; Deansaid, "We're not really at the crunch as we werelast night. Liddy's lawyer (unintelligible). O'Brien and Parkinson are getting shaky themselves. Dean is asking his lawyer for a statement saying he knew nothing in advance. Mitchell offered to leave during December orJanuary. He heard absolutely nothing more onthe intelligence crew. June 17th did see Liddy five or six times but (unintelligible) the campaign. The reason Dean called Liddy on June 19th was that Kleindienst had told him that Liddy saw him on the 18th before(unintelligible) out of jail. Liddy toldKleindienst (unintelligible) Ehrlichman. The Warren Commission idea, he still thinks it's possible. He's trying to pick it apart. The President could say, 'Here's what's charged to the White House, uh, against the White House andthe Committee, puts it all into perspective ofpolitics, says it's all bad. In fact the Commission (unintelligible) the situation. The press, the Senate Committee,APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.53HALDEMAN(CONT):and so on, prejudged (unintelligible) Weicker andso on. The FBI's falsely charged. The Justice--the, U.S. Attorney has falsely charged.No man's above the law, but under these circumstances, there's no possibility of (unintelligible) facts. He won't fight it if all are given fair treatment. So, I've created a super panel, in cooperation of all investigativeagencies. All people tell all. All people haveagreed to waive trial by jury. The panel can remove a Federal employee, levy fines, and post criminal sanctions (unintelligible) also submit, if they want to. Anyone who does not submit all information be turned over to the justice, the Justice Department for criminal prosecution. No judgment before all the facts received and we'll,then we'll make note of all the findings(unintelligible) action taken, proceed in secret as soon as possible.&#64258; The advantages he says of this are that nothing will be done until after the '74 elections. The President maintains the ultimate stroke which is a (unintelligible) until &#8218;75--'til '77. He suggests a panel of Earl Warren, Tom Clark, a former governor of some kind of(unintelligible). The President should call Ervindown and tell him what the plan is. Explain why. Ask him to hold his hearings in abeyance and ask him to serve on the panel. Then he says "You also should consider the President and Mitchell having a one-on-one talk. The President should find outwhat Mitchell's true perception is.&#64258; (Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Well, at least Dean at that time was still ourlawyer, wasn't he? (Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Well, he was building his own case at the sametime. You see it evolved bit by bit. Now later that day, he calls, says, "O'Brien talked to Mitchell today. Mitchell asked Jeb to come up. Mitchell will tell Magruder, 'I ain't going to jail. You make you own decision.' "Mitchell told Dean to stiffen up. Said, "If you go before theGrand JuryAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.54HALDEMAN(CONT).you won't be believed 'cause your story doesn'tjive with mine.&#64258; So told him yesterday that he would open a can of worms. Dean thinks that Mitchell is saying that Dean should do everything Mitchell's way. Jeb said McCord didbudget work for Liddy and maybe Liddy told him(unintelligible) to Magruder, Mitchell, and.they said--got it down. Jeb did talk to Gordon Strachan (unintelligible). He thinks Dean, Jeb should hire a good lawyer (unintelligible). We should beat Magruder to the punch on immunity byimmunizing Dean. See this--now he's on theimmunize Dean kick now for (unintelligible) save his own. The problem is Jeb's perception of the truth is bad. Changes all the time. He doesn't really know the truth. Dean thinks that Sirica oughta be (unintelligible) scare everyone. No chance for a fair trial.PRESIDENT:Well, I, I could call Sirica.HALDEMAN:Oh, yeah. The panel is better 'cause they makea fair assessment of the facts out of the public eye. Maybe Colson (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:And also the Special Counsel for that. HALDEMAN:And then--still, the same day, he says, "Hunt'sgonna give him a written statement and take theFifth on everything else. Peterson won't know 'til later what, uh, comes out.&#64258; He says, "Hunt--Dean is getting reports from Petersen as.to what's happening in the Grand Jury." (Pause) Dean reports later that McCord is goingto the Grand--going to the Senate before he goesto the Grand Jury.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Dean feels that in 24 hours he'll havedocumentation proving you didn't know anythingAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.55HALDEMAN(CONT).about the Watergate. He already has Jeb'saccount, Magruder's state--John Mitchell's statement. Liddy is (unintelligible). Regarding the post-June 17th there's a good chance to hunker down and survive. Dean goes tothe Grand Jury (unintelligible) should waiveprivilege (unintelligible) first one. Announced that-Wooodward of the Washington Post called Gerry Warren. Said they don't want to be polarized on this. They want to set the thing to rest and they'd be--interview the President.That's the 27th. That get&#8482;s us into the 28th,which was the day that Mitchell came down, met with Dean, then with Magruder and then Magruder with Dean.PRESIDENT:But not with me that day? HALDEMAN:No, sir. PRESIDENT:Yeah. I only saw Mitchell once.HALDEMAN:Yeah, you didn't see him that day at all. That'swhen Mitchell told me the Jeb story isn't the final passage of the White House. Liddy and Colson. Colson called Jeb twice to get going on this thing. Specifically, (unintelligible) O'Brien. Mentioned Florida. Liddy told Magruderlater that he was better. Colson called. GordonStrachan probably had a lot of the--of the Committee--he had some. Copy of (unintelligible) Strachan and Colson. Strachan told him that I had approved the plan.PRESIDENT:Strachan told Dean?HALDEMAN:No. Strachan told Jeb.PRESIDENT:Jeb. okay, what's this HALDEMAN:Jeb's story to Mitchell. It's the same PRESIDENT:And Jeb may not still be saying that at all. HALDEMAN:I know he's not.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.56PRESIDENT:You do know he's not?HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:You (unintelligible) what he said to the U.S.Attorney, do you?HALDEMAN:No. I know what he says he said. I know, Iknow what he says, he was going to say.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:And I know what he told Ehrlichman he said. PRESIDENT:Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible/REMOVED). That's mainly on theproblem of Dean. Dean testifying(unintelligible).REEL 3 BEGINSLater that day, Dean called me--Dean's down now,the 28th.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:He's done. PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah. HALDEMAN:Uh, you told me to give you a report thatevening on whether there was anything from Dean,so I checked to Dean on the phone.REEL 2 ENDSAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.57HALDEMAN:You called me at home.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah. HALDEMAN:No, I guess it was at 7:15 at night. No, itmust have been longer because I gave you the (unintelligible) and, uh, that',s when you called to tell me you were going to read thespeech from the desk rather than...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...stand up. And you said give me a report ifyou have anything from Dean. I checked Dean. Dean said Hunt spent four hours with immunity. There are no problems for usRESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). He said O'Brien had a longconversation with LaRue which eVolved into a discussion of Mitchell. And LaRue said that, as a student of Mitchell, he feels John's on the verge of breaking.PRESIDENT:Mmm.HALDEMAN:Dean told Mitchell and Magruder, regarding BartPorter, that he didn't remember Porter talking to him. O'Brien talked to Porter today and said he had talked to (unintelligible). Dean says he can't do what Mitchell and Magruder told him to do. The more he looks at the full speech, I think,APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.58HALDEMAN,the more he thinks we should work itContinued:out. Mitchell and Magruder both said that theyboth signed off on Watergate.(Unintelligible/REMOVED).PRESIDENT:Funny, Dean says Colson's June activity-thisafter the March 21st thing.HALDEMAN:Oh, yeah. This is a week later.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:This is a question whether Dean can avoid thatpoint. I raised the question but you avoided the point. (Unintelligible) Mitchell (unintelligible). He said, "Well, one way I canavoid it is if I'm not called. A narrow waiverthat restricts me might work. " Then, he says, " I feel it I s imperative that we get a criminal lawyer. Maybe I could hire one, as the President's consultant. The best one I know is Hugh Schwartz, he's a Democrat (unintelligible). The only other one I know is Charlie Schaffer inRockville"--and now that's one of his lawyers.PRESIDENT:Yeah, that's right, Schaffer is. Schaffer. Ithink (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Okay, Schaffer. Uh (Pause) that's all on that(unintelligible). Mitchell, the next time Mitchell talks to me, with, regarding Dean--O'Brien feels it'd be a mistake for Dean toannounce. Better to get the charges out first and structure it so we have an understanding (unintelligible). Undisputed in the Grand Jury--no problems (unintelligible) again White House spokesman (unintelligible). Mitchell says,"Everyone tells me that Dean is up-tight andhe's not making proper judgments. I strongly suggests that youAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.59HALDEMAN,Continued:make sure that Dean doesn't go off halfcockedwithout your reviewing.&#64258; I'm the only one--"Haldeman's the only one Dean can trust, his opinion of Ehrlichman is incredible.&#64258; It's frightening (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:No, I should establish contact with Dean andmaintain it.PRESIDENT:Did you do that? HALDEMAN:I have all along. PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:As you can see (pause). Then we went to SanClementePRESIDENT:For a week. HALDEMAN:...and we give the stuff to--I don't haveanything significant on Watergate over the weekend until the day that you came, on Monday.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:And that morning Mitchell called me to say thatO'Brien met with Dean and Dean's taken the unique stance and that the only salvation now is for me to talk to Dean. If Dean does say what he suggests he's going to say, he will unravel the whole thing. And, uh, Mitchell&#8482;s surprisedbecause after the meeting the other day, whichwould have been (unintelligible), I thought he understood. Dean's using Haldeman as the reason that he have to stay with us, because he told Haldeman about the meeting afterwards so he can't (unintelligible) the facts on that. Hesaid, "Some of the post activitiesAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.60HALDEMAN:are also a problem. We should consider thesolution of Dean not testifying. That would solve several problems and we got ample grounds for that.&#64258; (Unintelligible) suggestion.PRESIDENT:Do you think we could have gotten awaywithout--without--Dean not testifying?HALDEMAN:No, we never, we, we, we never got to thatpoint.PRESIDENT:No. He went in anyway. HALDEMAN:Dean says, Dean calls me, a few minutes laterthat same day. He says his lawyer says that Dean must not talk to Mitchell and Magruder.Now Dean must answer for Watergate. He wouldrather take the potential Fifth, than to cause anyone a problem, (unintelligible) potential indictment. Strachan is being worked on by Magruder. Moore had lungh-with Kleindienst, about the Special Prosecutor thing, and he, Kleindienst thinks he has to do this(unintelligible) device to avoid(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:Yeah. If Dean tells the truth, Dean says "If Itell the truth it will start finger-pointing that would be unbearable." I have no idea whatMitchell said before the Grand Jury but Mitchellmust consider what he said would conflict with what O'Brien knows. O'Brien told Dean Saturday that Jeb is not now concern6d with Dean's testimony.PRESIDENT:Yeah.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.61HALDEMAN:O'Brien really knows all the facts. Dean'slawyer says don't write his story down and, and don't give a (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Talking about Dean now--That's an interestinglittle (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:And that afternoon, April 2, at San Clemente,you and Ehrlichman and I had a long meeting.And you said it's important, one, that the President be isolated from all these discussions. Tell all the parties that the President has other problems, with the Committee, Congress, South Vietnam and so on.(Unin telligible) schedule (unintelligible)first three months of all this.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:He said no, I can't talk to the people concernedanymore, for example Dean, Moore, and Colson, and Mitchell, and Bush, and the Vice President. I can't talk to any of them, so Ehrlichman mustget in conference with all concerned.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:And second, there must be no falling out oncharges -like Ehrlichman -all different directions. Can't have this &#64257;every man for himself.&#64258; Dean (unintelligible) after this youwent into (unintelligible) case review -strategy-and what it would cost the (unintelligible). Talked about campaign. The next day Mitchell called the first thing in the morning and said, "Paul O'Brien will be out in California Wednesday night..."-this was like Tuesday, hewas talking,-APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.62HALDEMAN,Continued:"...to meet with Kalmbach on Thursday morning.&#64258;I strong -"I urge strongly that Haldeman see him and set it up through Dick Moore.&#64258; I did set it up for Ehrlichman to see him myself. Then, the next day, the fourth...PRESIDENT:That was pretty good investigation though, whenyou come to think about it, Bob.HALDEMAN:Damn right. PRESIDENT:Um hmm. HALDEMAN:Yes sir. The next day, on the fourth, Deancalls me, we're still in San Clemente, and saidhis lawyer saw the U.S. Attorneys, Silbert andGlanzer, and they just sat and listened to take their temperatures as representatives of Dean regarding what would happen. What they found was that one, Dean will be called, probably next week, under the same conditions as Mitchell, with no cameras and not enough to go after him.Number two, Dean is not a target for the GrandJury, also Haldeman is not...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) never gonna get(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:...they don't believe that they're gonna have tocall Haldeman at all except possibly tocorroborate other statements. Number three,Liddy has talked to the U. S.Attorney but his lawyer doesn't know it. They believe -see I think this is a lie, because they've told Dean that Liddy hasn't talked to them.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.63PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:I think this is how they started to break Dean.They told his lawyers that Liddy had told the whole story. That's when Dean started cracking, I think. Because they've said Liddy has talked to the U.S. Attorney, his lawyer doesn't knowit, the U.S. Attorney believes Liddy. He hasfreed the White House from their minds. It was to make us feel good.PRESIDENT:Dean makes you feel good? HALDEMAN:But we don't know what he said. The lawyers sayDean must not talk to Jeb. This morning Jebcalled and Dean's lawyers (unintelligible).Fourth, they discussed the (unintelligible) business on privilege. Dean won't and can't take the Fifth Amendment, say the U. S. Attorneys. His lawyers say he may have to on the technicals. They told the Attorneys that, and the U.S. Attorneys say they won't pursue thetechnical violations. (Unintelligible) Dean'slawyers think there will be practical immunity regarding the after-the-fact technical violations.PRESIDENT:Um hmm. HALDEMAN:They talked about the funny positions of theGrand Jury (unintelligible/REMOVED). Dean'sview of the Ehrlichman matter, that somearrangements have to be made on ground rules only that only first hand knowledge, not hearsay.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.64PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:Yes, but now Dean then should be hard-linefellow here. Then-he tells me that Mitchell's called Moore -that in Dean's office Clawson talked to Mitchell yesterday -said that Parkinson says -the (unintelligible) payoff(unintelligible) McCord's gonna say the(unintelligible) is a lie (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah, yeah.(Pause)HALDEMAN:The next day Dean called me and said, regardinghis story, there's no real problem. He has anidea we ought to go public. If we want thefacts (unintelligible). We'll know how to do it. He said let's cut the Watergate out, let the U.S. Attorney summarize that later (unintelligible) not jeopardize and then release a full report. Then let Ervin go ahead (unintelligible) Watergate.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) can't handle the Watergateproperly.PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's all Watergate is. HALDEMAN:He said he's put it to the Grand Jury one daynext week (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:After all that, you see, he's already had histalk with the Grand Jury and the, uh, U.S. Attorney said (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.65HALDEMAN:Yep, then on the seventh, which was Saturday, wewere still in San Clemente, he said his lawyers talked to the U. S. Attorneys. He said they only want the facts on Watergate, but he&#8482;s told them everything he knows. They don't believe Hunt, they're gonna push him harder, they wantme to be in tomorrow. He said on the eighth,off the record, no action. Haldeman says attorney-client and so forth, we're at the moment of truth, the Grand Jury still does not know what they want, they only want the pre, they're not interested in the post.PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:They want Dean because they (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:They're sure interested in post now, aren'tthey?HALDEMAN:Yep. That was the weekend, (unintelligible) ontelevision on Sunday.PRESIDENT:Yeah.(Pause)HALDEMAN:I didn't even see it, see it (unintelligible) onSunday night.PRESIDENT:I don't see how you can manage to carry all theload.HALDEMAN:I just listen.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.66PRESIDENT:Huh?HALDEMAN:A couple days went along when I didn't talk withyou. (Unintelligible), That's what Mitchell was saying, and Ehrlichman was saying.PRESIDENT:Yeah, that's right.(Pause)HALDEMAN:So, uh, (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Yeah. Maybe you can get John over and talk alittle before you go h6me.HALDEMAN:Check to see if there's anyone who wants to(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Oh, I want you to know, I haven't had any reportyet from Kleindienst. I'm keeping in touch withhim. He said he&#8482;d (unintelligible) to see if (unintelligible) what there are several others and I asked them what, what they are going to do with that memorandum that was sent up there. I let John (telephone conversation begins) --Yeah, yeah, I'd like to point this out right now. -Ohyeah. --No, no. -Yeah, I see. -Yeah. Right. -Yeah, uh, he, Bob told me that. He's just been here a few minutes, and he told me, and I think that's very important. Now on the Pat Gray story, what's your advice as an officer? -Yeah. -Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.-Right. --APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.67PRESIDENT,Continued: What? Maybe, uh, maybe you should.-(Unintelligible) April 15th, uh --Yeah.--Right.--Right, I said right--Yeah.--Yeah. Yep.--Ah.--Sure who, uh--Yeah, I just think you're, uh,, maybe yourattorney should know that. What do you think?I don't know. Yeah. Right. -That's right. Right. That's right. -Yeah. Why don't you drop -maybe you can come over, we can talk it over here. It would be a great help. Fine, fine. ... The story regarding Mr. Gray's safe hasbroken.PRESIDENT:Kleindienst, please. HALDEMAN:Who has it? PRESIDENT:The New York Times (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) Sure as hell is, you've justgotta (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:First the New York Times called my lawyer, thenhe said he had a report, a first-hand reportfrom a high administration official, that that official and Haldeman had engineered the cover-up of Watergate. My lawyer -now whether it's really a first-hand report -you heard it with your own ears. My lawyer said yes. Hesaid a high present official or former official(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Who, Mitchell and Haldeman? HALDEMAN:The lawyer said, uh, Mitchell. The reportersays that Mitchell said in his presence and the presence of other reporters, off the record,that he and Haldeman engineeredAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.68HALDEMAN,Continued:the Watergate cover-up. Yes, the lawyer is(unintelligible). But I don't believe, I think that's pure fishing on the part of Hirsch. (Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Mitchell, Mitchell's drinking. HALDEMAN:That's the only thing I told the lawyer. Mitchellwas drunk last night or something on the way back on the plane from Florida (unintelligible).Mitchell is certainly a professional Grand Jurytestifier. I'd recommend him.PRESIDENT:Yeah (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:I think also Mitchell might have said it in a joke.You know, where he said that they're planning on it, and then say, "Yes, as a matter of fact, you smart-ass bastard, Haldeman and I sat down and engineered the whole fucking cover-up. Now whatmore do you want?"PRESIDENT:The cover-up or the, or the, uh, the or the(unintelligible) or the bugging?HALDEMAN:That's neither here nor there; I don't think I'dtalk to Mitchell.PRESIDENT:What John is referring to, in view of thisdisclosure, he feels that he may have to take leave because of the (unintelligible) involvement.That's what he was told on the phone, I told himyou talked to John. Well, uh...HALDEMAN:Well, when he "deep-sixed" the stuff...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.69PRESIDENT:Yeah (unintelligible) but that they, the, thestory is that the, that Ehrlichman and Dean...(Telephone rings) Yeah, yeah. -About the, uh, report from theTimes. Oh, yeah, go ahead, yeah. -Yeah. I see, fine, good, good. I'll call you tomorrow.-The other thing-Dick, you know, there's thedeletion. I think I should talk to you about -this involved Pat Gray -involving the, the, the, the -Dean giving them the contents, some of the contents from Hunt's safe. And, uh, the New York Times (unintelligible) uh, and, and thatGray did, and that Gray destroyed it, you know.Uh, don't you feel that under the circumstance, that uh, Gray, uh, I don't know, I think I'm overreacting, but uh, especially under these circumstances, don't you think he ought to resign? What do you think?How, how do we handle this? Do you want to think about it? What canwe do? Call me back? -Well, the point is that-Yeah, well, we're not going to have you do it tonight, but I guess, I think I should, right, but I mean the story, uh -What's Henry think, uh, we should do about it? -Yeah. -Right. -All right. -Well, can I ask you and, uh, youcan think a little about it? -Uh, we'll, uh,know, uh, the uh, let me say though, and I know this is, uh, an awful thing, but uh, believe me, I want the whole damn thing out, don&#8482;t you? Tell it as it is. -Well, sure, sure, it's going to come outAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.70PRESIDENT,Continued:in the paper. But Dick, Dick, for crying outloud, God damn it, these damn things happen. Uh, I have preference, we've got to get them out. You know. That's my responsibility, my responsibility, and by golly I'm going to meetit. Yeah. All right. -Well. Fine. Bye... Hesays "Well, we'll think about it."(Pause) Petersen, uh, please, Assistant Attorney General...I'll tell Ron (unintelligible) John's tryingto (unintelligible/REMOVED) John shouldn't askfor a week. Look, he knew, he knew, he knew.(Unintelligible). Look, the point is, he knew this was part of (unintelligible). Right?HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). For Christ sake, he, he, uh,observed the turning over of the stuff to the FBI. Now if you've got an FBI Director that's out of his mind, that isn't Ehrlichman's fault.PRESIDENT:But he said that, because of the innuendo of thearrest, he wanted to take a leave until it was cleared up.HALDEMAN:No, no, no. PRESIDENT:Then if that happens, then, u~, Bob, basically,uh, Dean would have to, you would have to,wouldn't you? Dean would have to as well.HALDEMAN:Dean should have been out long ago, if you canfollow it up. Maybe it, maybe...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.71(phone rings)PRESIDENT:Hello -Oh, I just wanted to, uh, I just wantedto, uh, talk to Dick Kleindeinst. He said held chat with you, uh, uh. I just wanted to get your reaction to how we, uh, how we, uh, how we handled the Gray situation up at, uh(unintelligible). Do you want to think about itovernight or should you react right away or what? -Good. -Yeah. But how long can he really stay on? Uh -But he should. -Let me ask you this. Rather than my doing it, uh, I suggest that you ask Dick. Uh, you, would you minddiscussing it with Kleindienst, uh, I, I think,uh, let's, let's not put it in a, put it in a context where I, uh, uh, I love him too, I love all of you, but you know what I mean. I, I want him, I want him to be this way so that he doesn't look like an ass. And I said, uh, wouldn't you, if you were in such a position,prepare to have, uh, Dick perhaps -needlesscasualties (unintelligible). Why the hell did we start the damn thing? I'll be damned if I know. But I don't know what to do. That is another part of the, uh ... Well, in any event, then, would you, uh, would you just, uh, wouldyou, would you mind, would you talk toKleindienst and say Look, uh, would you--.talk to Pat and tell Pat, uh"-Just a second here, just a second, somebody's on another line, let met get to another phone, hold on.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible/REMOVED). Does Petersen knowwhy Gray destroyed the (unintelligible)? Inother words, what Ziegler says ought to be guided at least in part by whatAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.72HALDEMAN,Continued:explanation Gray is going to give. Petersen's(unintelligible/REMOVED).PRESIDENT:Yeah. (Unintelligible). All right, I, I'mready to talk how. But the one question I was going to ask you about is that, what, what in the world is Gray going to say as to why he destroyed it? Cause he obviously figures, well he counted on. Uh -Yeah. -Right. -Did he haveyou put some confidence in Ehrlichman and Dean?-That's good, well he isn't, uh, he can't say that Ehrlichman and Dean told him to destroy? Did he? Did he, by the way, see that story, uh, really wouldn't stand-up for him, I mean apart from needing help, for for him? Why does, whydoes, for example Ehrlichman and Dean call theDirector of the FBI over and say, "Look, here's some documents, destroy them.&#64258; Why the hell didn't they destroy &#8218;em themselves? -I-see. -I see. -Yeah. -Yeah. -Um hmm. -Yeah, and that he's going, uh, and that is what basically he'sgoing to say, or has he said it? -Yeah. -Yeah,that, that Dean told, he said that these were documents that were wholly unrelated to the, the, to the Watergate, and that they sould be destroyed. But that, that -you know I, I, I think he, if he leaves, you know what I mean, and so forth and so on, for him to, for him tosay that a, that, that, that record is, thestory, in my view, simply doesn't, doesn't ring too damn much true. You know what I mean now? Why didn't, why in the world did the, did Dean and/or Ehrlichman, uh, call the Director ofAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.73PRESIDENT,Continued:the FBI, hand him documents, and then say "Takethem because they're not related to Watergate,and destroy them."You see my point? That's, that's a screwball, that's a screwball -That's, I don't think he's thereon another matter but that's a screwball purpose. What did Dean tell you? -Yeah. Dean says that Ehrlichmantold Dean to destroy them. --Uh, that's the so called"deep-six" then? -Right, right. -Right. --Well,I don't know, I'm not going totry to tell anybody to change the story and so forth, that is because I want, I understand we want the truth, but I, I, I just can't uh, believe, I just can't believe that, uh, anybody, I can'treally believe that anybody's gonna believethatthe Director of the FBI was handed some documents and told to destroy &#8218;em. Ha! You wanna see? -My God yes. And that he did it I mean destroyed them. Bet J. Edgar Hoover's got every, uh, every doodle that anybody everhad around, right there in his files. Right.-When, uh, when will, uh, will Gray, uh, make, make this go back to our peoplehere? -Well, uh, well I'll tell you what. -Yeah. -I'll tell you what you do, uh, because basically uh, uh, how far, how far I want to get into this damn thing, I don't know. But I mean, I, I heard this, thisinsane story that, that the event -that how this-What, what function Ziegler set, function Ziegler set (unintelligible) -I just, yeah, but that's our problem, he said well, we can't say that we just, I mean we had some, you know, we, in other wordsAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.74PRESIDENT,Continued:the, our investigation here is the one thatwe've been undertaking, uh, the, uh, 21st ofMarch, uh, we had information about this, but we haven't had the damn thing corroborated. You know what I mean? Yeah, I've never had, I've, Dean, I mean, let me put it this way, Pat Gray never told me this. Uh, he, uh, he's told You this. Remember, he's told you -He first toldyou, as I remember, Henry, that nobody ever gotany documents, and then later on he said, "Yeah, I got some but I destroyed &#8218;em." Right? So uh, he was put in a tough position, there. -Although, although on the other hand that&#8482;s, uh, something you don't live with, and I guessthat's your point. You were investigating him,he may have forgotten but, uh -I see. It was a casual conversation. -Right. Right. -Yeah. -And then the next day he said he refreshed, he refreshed his recollection and said, "Yes, I did get the documents, and I was told to destroythem.&#64258; That's what Pat Gray now says, is thatcorrect? -Yeah. -Well, I don't belive that, uh, (unintelligible). You see, the point is when you say that, uh, that, that Dean thinks that he fixed it and so forth, you haven't had Ehrlichman (unintelligible) you haven't had that corroborated yet, because basically, uh,Ehrlichman was in the room when this happenedand Ehrlichman when it happened and Ehrlichman of course knows, uh, he uh, he uh, uh, and, uh, I'm gonna have to talk to him about this. I have to. But the point that I, the point that I make is this: whether or not, uh,APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.75PRESIDENTContinued:whether, whether, uh, uh, d-did Dean corroborateGray's story? That's what one thing I'd like toknow. Did Dean say that in the presence of Ehrlichman, that, that he or Ehrlichman, or both told Gray "These are politically sensitive, unrelated to Watergate, and they should be destroyed.&#64258; Did Dean say that? -That's the whole point, you see, I think, I don't, uh, now,let me say, let me say, let me, let me say this,on this, for your information, I've questioned Dean about this, uh, uh, he uh, uh -I see -What? -Yeah, yeah, no, after, uh, after we had your, our talk, you know, I said, I said that, uh, he just said I, we handed the doc-, he gave thedocuments to Gray. That's, uh, you know what Imean, and uh, that was that. He didn't say, but he never said we told him to destroy them. You see my point? But hell Dean was, uh, well let, let me put it this way. Assuming he had, why the hell is he going to implicate himself insuch a thing as that? He can let Gray take therap for it. -Yeah. --Yeah. Yeah, and he didn't. -Right, right. That's right. -Right. Right, right, right, right, right. Right-Right. -Yeah. -I see. -I see, but that was not done, -That's right. -Incidentally, may I ask, without reviewing the contents, did, uh, did you get tothe bottom of the Sheppard mystery? -Okay.Fine. Yeah. Okay. --Oh yeah. Yeah. Right. Exactly.-Oh, hey, the reason why they thought that I was putting up the transcripts, huh. -Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha -Yeah. -Well,APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.76PRESIDENT,Continued:let me say this, uh, one of the, one of the(unintelligible) my record is clear on is I, youcould swear on, on a stack of Bibles that I, in fact I've probably bent over more backward more than most people would have that did this. Fell on the Grand Jury, I do not want to know. I know. Right, right, and uh -by direction. All right. -On the, uh, on the Gray thing, uh, itseems to me that, uh, that Gray, you should haveyour meeting with Gray immediately. The three of you. Don&#8482;t have him make a statement; however, until uh, until uh, he uh, I don't know whether, whetherhe should even make one tonight. Uh, uh, you know what I mean? I'm not sure Icould react that soon. But I know that, uh,he's got convictions and maybe we shouldn't act like, uh ... I think that under the circumstances that the destruction done or, even though it was done with no legal intent, uh, this ah, this uh, stupidity of the, it'sunbelievable (unintelligible). He'll have toresign, which would be the best ... Who's second man, Uh (unintelligible) over there? Felt (unintelligible) -Yeah. -That's right. I know. Yeah, I know. -I know. I know. No that's (unintelligible). No, no, we, we've got to be cleaned out, got to be cleaned out. My pointis, my point is, this is not the time. This isnot the time. I am not ready to name Gray's successor. I'm still searching, you know, and so therefore, but, but, but the point is if Gray leaves -Huh, what? Yeah. -But the point that I want to get across here, that they haven't beennalning anybody to succeed Gray, I've got to doit on the basis of, uh, you know, anActing Directoryat this point and, uh, and I do think we're going to have to make this to the point, to the point that, uh... I'll have to be leaving now, do you have a meeting at, uh, 6:10,uh, you andAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.77PRESIDENT,Continxied:Dick, uh (unintelligible) are going to meet withGray (unintelligible) over hhere? Or should Gray----Oh, I see. -Yeah. -Yeah, he's gotta think about it and uh, and he shouldn't make a. I don't think that Gray should pop off with a statement tonight on the thing. Uh, does that, doesn't that make sense? -Yeah, after all, because basically he's gonna have to say whatthe situation is. Now what is your suggestionas to what, uh, uh, anybody else, I mean (unintelligible) investigating the matter. I mean after all, this is one of the things you are investigating this, this, this whole damn "deep-six"thing. Remember, I told you to locatethe list, find out, you haven't, you haven'teven, uh, you, well, as a matter, you, you haven't even had Dean's statement under oath yet, have you? And you haven't had Ehrlichman under oath? So (unintelligible) for a full moon. -Yeah. -Well, uh, one, one, one thing else, uh,that the, uh, what about your, what about your,your, your meeting with Dean? Uh, isn't it about time you get that done? Let's just get this thing rolling, or is that something (unintelligible)? When are you going to meet him? -His attorney, -Yeah -Right. -Yeah. -See, the problem I have is this, as you see, but the,but the, but the problem I have is that, uh,they say, "Well what are you going to do about Ehrlichman?&#64258; Question is, "What, what are you going to do about Dean?" You see what I mean? -You see. -So therefore, the point is, the, the point is that, ah -Yeah, yeah, I know, I know,oh, no, no, no, no, no, what I am referring tothough is the terms of, of uh, of when you were going to get. Now I understandAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.78PRESIDENT,Continued:all in our conversation that, uh, that theattorneys for Haldeman and Ehrlichman are goingto meet with the U.S. Attorneys and arrange for, uh, first the informal interview, which you suggested was the proper procedure. That's going to be done very soon, I understand. Isuppose (unintelligible/REMOVED). Then, uh, sowe get that out of the way. Uh, and then, ofcourse, they will be able to go over to GrandJury after they've had their meeting. Uh, but getting back to the Dean thing, uh, it came to me that, uh, uh, you've got to get Dean in there to them, uh, you know what I mean? I mean you've gotta, you've gotta decide the Dean thing, and--Let me just say one thing, that on that, thedecision is yours. He'll get, he comes to you, but, but don't be concerned about what he told, I mean, uh, what he holds, uh, trump card or blackjack and so forth. There's not going to be any blackmail here, and uh, don't you agree?-What's that? -Right. -Right.--Are Magruder'sand Dean's stories variable (unintelligible)?-Um hmm. Yeah. Yeah, you want Dean to plead. Yeah. Then you got a case. --That's right. -Yeah. -I know you are. You're still sure of both Ehrlichman and Haldeman, but you've gotta 4et, but the part that, I, I understand and I&#8482;mnot trying to take you out around the case, theonly thing I think the plea is, uh. How I can still sit here with, uh, I mean, I mean I'm restless with Ehrlichman and Haldeman's problem, naturally, if we, if you, but then I also have to wrestle with Dean's problem, because I'maware of information that you are. I mean, Iagree and our blank conversation, but I'm aware of those conversations see, and, IAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.79PRESIDENT,Continued:cannot move until, uh, without practicallyjeopardizing your, uh, prosecution. Can I? -No,but I guess they didn't tell me. I mean the point is, uh, if you're -All right, then I'll wait for you, but uh, I would say that, uh, Dean's decision ought to be made soon, uh, and uh, remember there's not going to be any blackmail or nothing of that sort. Call here, Iwant to follow this damn thing, and uh, I wantit clearly understood. But, uh, we're, uh going to be concerned about blackmail anyhow. It's (unintelligible) him. I mean, uh, it's not the President, you can be sure of. The President's family all know that they may try a little ofthat and they may say, "Well, they all knewabout the cover-up and so forth", all right, fine, but uh, don't let &#8218;em blackmail you. Don't you be a bit concerned. I mean Dean, let me put up that Dean now has about as much, I'm afraid, in view of what has happened here, hehas got about as much, uh, credibility as, asMagruder has, which ain't much. That's the problem. -Yeah. -That's right. -Would you like, like anybody. Okay. Well, let me know about your day. How you go with Dick Kleindienst. Call me right back. ...Well, you heard it.HALDEMAN:Huh, the solution to that. Kleindienst said hehad one iota of a (unintelligible) to get Gray off in a corner alone and say "You son-of-a-bitch, you can't talk like that". Yet he won't do it, maybe after this -and Gray will -and what you have to do is, is not tell me whatto say, I'll just say, "Pat, I'm astonished atwhat you're going to say. I don't believe it and I want you to...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.80PRESIDENT:Well...HALDEMAN:...tell me, is that true?"PRESIDENT:Yeah. Here is the problem that, uh -the thingthat of course is the loose cannon out there is again the son-of-a bitch Dean,HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Dean says he gets the story that Ehrlichman toldhim to destroy the documents. So forth (unintelligible) "deep-six" them and he said(unintelligible) but You heard what I said wellnow, that's a totally ridiculous story, I mean, if they're going to destroy the documents why would they call the Director of the FBI over and say, "Look, here's some documents, destroy them."HALDEMAN:More than that, I thought Dean's story was thatI said that, but he thought better of it. So he didn't.PRESIDENT:And they gave &#8218;em to Gray. HALDEMAN:So he gave them to Gray. Dean's told me that... PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:...several times. This doesn't fit that(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Kleindienst, please. HALDEMAN:On the other side, you might want to useKleindienst. He said Ehrlichman calledAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.81HALDEMANContinued:Gray at home Sunday night at 10:45 about theenvelope in question, and Gray said, "John, I'mgonna say, I didn't know anything about it.&#64258; He said, "Yeah." I said we deny it. I said, "Dean has, has talked about the delivery of the documents," add he said, "You can't let him say that.&#64258; I said, "Well, Pat, he's already said it.&#64258; And he said, "Well, I'll deny it.&#64258; And hesaid, "You've gotta back me up.&#64258; And then Icalled back, remember, four minutes later...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). Well, whatever it was. He wassitting right here.HALDEMAN:We met for twenty minutes. All right, I calledhim back, told Bob, and said, "Pat, I can'tleave our previous conversation alone. Youcan't deny it, because I'm gonna have to back up Dean when he says he delivered it. But what you said is that you must tell the truth, Pat. You've got to state the facts, don't get crosswise on this."PRESIDENT:The problem is, what is Dean going to say aboutthis today? That's the point, isn't it? The point is what the hell he says about this, isn't that? See, we haven't got anybody to talk to him. Ziegler?HALDEMAN:Ziegler could.Reel 4 BeginsUNIDENTIFIED:Yeah.HALDEMAN:I suggested to Ron that he talk to Dean, but hewants to talk to you first.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.82PRESIDENT:All right, get Ron over here (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Would you ask Ron Ziegler to come to thePresident's office, immediately, please? Thankyou.Reel 3 EndsAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.83HALDEMAN:Gray said to you in that second conversation hedidn't know where the papers came from, and I(unintelligible) say he didn't open it, but hedestroyed it. And you put the thing downj the total shock saying he destroyed it.PRESIDENT:Yeah. I know. You, you, you, you, you showedit. You showed me here and well, he says, there goes my, uh, career.HALDEMAN:Well, the trouble is now talking. Sure did.PRESIDENT:Well, I, I, I saw the expression.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) said just threw you right, Imean (unintelligible) it would.PRESIDENT:Yes, So I've a curious situation here I'd liketo know more about (unintelligible) really important.EHRLICHMAN:I didn't tell you about this problem of why youdidn't act on Gray sooner. (Unintelligible) Gray's two statements to Petersen. You can reason him out. In other words, Petersen's still investigating. But you say all the witnesses and all haven't been called again.PRESIDENT:I know. But don't you think that in view ofthis--do you think Gray should resign?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.84PRESIDENT:Yeah. Hello.OPERATOR:(Unintelligible) calling.PRESIDENT:Uh, Dick, are you where you can talk?-Yeah. Onething I think is very important and perhaps that, uh, awfully difficult to (Unintelligible) Pat Gray, uh, that, uh--a story to the effect--I'm talking now about the truth--a story to the effect that he came over to, uh, Ehrlichman's office and received documents andwas told by Ehrlichman and/or Dean to destroythem, first, is not true. That's (unintelligible). What happened is, uh, is basically that he was handed the documents, and then the stupid fellow didn't--told him they were not related to Watergate, but they werepolitical, uh, documents, politically, uh, uh,documents and they were delivering them to him. Now, it, it seems to me that Gray, uh, frankly, that he just walks out and says--I mean, you know (unintelligible)--but that he walks out and says something that is not true, because, uh,Ehrlichiman has (unintelligible) I talked withDean and, my God, what Dean will say now, I don't know. I mean there, uh, but, uh, but my talk with Ehrlichman, which I know is, uh, is the God's truth. They handed him the documents and I, I remember that when, uh, this matter came up, Ehrlichman called--you see the ccurious the--just so you know the facts,Petersen first called Patrick and said, "Did you have any, uh, did you receive such documents?&#64258; And Gray denied having ever receiving any. D-denied it twice.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.85PRESIDENT:Then, finally, he said he refreshed hiscontinuedmemory. He said, yes, held received them, but hedestroyed them. Well now, the' pointis, uh, I, uh--Ehrlichman called Gray also, uh, and said,"Pat, what about those envelopes that you got?" And uh, uh, and Pat, of course--which of course he denied, you see--he said, "You remembered it, yougot them," and he says, "Where the hell are they?" And he says, "I destroyed them."and Ehrlichmanwas utterly shocked. And I'm sure Dean was utterlyshocked. Over what Dean would say now, I don't know. There was discussion of&#352;Dean says there was a discussion we ought to get, we oughta destroy the documents in Hunt's safe that had nothing to do with Watergate, and so forth. But the point was, it was not done. It was handed to Gray, and Gray did destroy them. But the critical point isthis--that th-, the Director of the FBI--it's badenough for him to say, "I took the documents, and I destroyed them because they weren't related to any cases you had, and I didn't feel we should have (unintelligible)." That's bad enough. But if he says that I destroyed them because I was ordered to, canyou imagine what that makes him look like?And I, I want you to have a heart to-hearttalk with him on that point, &#8218;cause I don't want to(unintelligible) that you're a liar. So, uh, are you (unintelligible)?(Pause)PRESIDENT:Yeah--Yeah. All right--right. All right. Fine.All right. You call me back. Bye, bye...Well, crisis a day, crisis an hour.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.86ZIEGLER:Yes, sir. Dean (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Right. Yeah. Well, I don't know, uh, when--theTimes will run the story in the morning?ZIEGLER:Oh, I suppose so. Yes, sir. PRESIDENT:Yeah. And, uh, who'd they get it from? Do theyknow?ZIEGLER:It's all over town, apparently (unintelligible)true.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).ZIEGLER:(Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:And are they referring to the fact that-are theysaying that--are they, are they using in the story the fact that Ehr-, Ehrlichman and Dean, and/or Dean ordered Gray to destroy them?ZIEGLER:It doesn't say ordered him.PRESIDENT:Told him to destroy them?ZIEGLER:It doesn't say told, it says PRESIDENT:He destroyed them (unintelligible). ZIEGLER:...following--after a meeting. PRESIDENT:That's right. ZIEGLER:Uh, Truitt, uh, his comments, uh, it was afterhe had referred--he also had referred to thefact that the material was forged documents blaming uh, Kennedy for the assassination of (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.87HALDEMAN:Diem.PRESIDENT:I thought it was Diem.HALDEMAN:Yeah.ZIEGLER:RESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;I don't know what I am--all I'm saying is whatTruitt...PRESIDENT:I understand. I understand. But that's I thinkprobably what it was. I don't know. That's uh, but, uh, does anybody know what the hell the documents were?HALDEMAN:The only person I know who has ever said thatthat's what it was is John Dean.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Somebody has seen those documents.Somebody has got to have seen the God damn documents.HALDEMAN:Fred Fielding saw them. PRESIDENT:'Spose it helps, er, has anybody talked to Dean? HALDEMAN:(Sigh). Dean told me that Fielding saw thedocuments.PRESIDENT:And that they involved the assassination ofDiem?HALDEMAN:No, he--yeah, I guess he did. He said that th-,among them was--he said there was a bunch of very bad political stuff and among them was somephony document, uh, that, that, uh--saying thatKennedy has instituted the assassination of Diem. You think that was (unintelligible) Dean? (Pause)APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.88PRESIDENT:Yeah. As I...HALDEMAN:Dean says he never looked at it. He saysFielding is the only onePRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I would thinkthis--it would be important first, for, uh--you have not reacted yet.ZIEGLER:No, I didn't think I should. Colson talked withme.PRESIDENT:Yeah.ZIEGLER:I think he wanted you to react to a storyPRESIDENT:Yeah. ZIEGLER:...such as this, and I'd overreact all over theplace...PRESIDENT:I agree. ZIEGLER:...(unintelligible)...PRESIDENT:I agree. Now the point is, uh, should Johnreact?ZIEGLER:I think he should. Whatever the situation is,as he knows it, I think you're -Colson should release it.PRESIDENT:Should, should Dean react?ZIEGLER:Well, (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:I didn't think he was (unintelligible). ZIEGLER:But (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.89PRESIDENT:Well, it would be helpful to know what the hellhe's gonna say, would you mind explaining it toJohn, say-we're getting queries on it and, uh,and, uh, and, uh, and, uh, the, uh, that the question is, uh, I just, is blackmail what you're, uh--what are, what if anything, uh, you're gonna say? What is your thinking?HALDEMAN:Should we get into the fact that one report is,understand that, that ... or, or wePRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:...that Gray claims that... PRESIDENT:Gray? HALDEMAN:...that Gray was ordered to destroy them. PRESIDENT:By Dean? ZIEGLER:I don't know.HALDEMAN:Well, you do now.PRESIDENT:I told you that. I got that, I got that from, Igot that from--I just talked to Kleindienst. Kleindienst told me, and Petersen.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Petersen claimed he's told him (unintelligible)that, uh, Gray's, that uh, that uh, theirversion--Gray's version is that he was ordered to destroy them. By Dean. And that that's what the story is (unin-APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.90PRESIDENT:continuedtelligible) and say, "Was that the case or didyou just hand it to him?"ZIEGLER:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:See what I mean? ZIEGLER:Yes, sir. PRESIDENT:I just want to get, I just want to know whathe's gonna say. I'm just trying to find out. Say, "John, uh," and uh, tell him we're notgonna--we don't comment stories here. Don'tcomment on 'em from here. Not now."EHRLICHMAN:And ask him not to say anything without checkingwith you first.PRESIDENT:Any you ask him... ZIEGLER:Okay. Let me just state it here.PRESIDENT:All right.ZIEGLER:In the last few days (unintelligible). I havenot been checking with Dean about how he responds.PRESIDENT:I see. All right. ZIEGLER:...(Unintelligible) asked me to do this, sothat's fine.HALDEMAN:Well, this is different. This isn't just a Deanstory.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.91PRESIDENT:This is one that involved getting out Ehrlichmanand Gray. That's the problem we've got. Justsay, uh, "John, the only purpose of this is to,uh..."ZIEGLER:(Unintelligible) EHRLICHMAN:(Unintelligible) cover-up, right? HALDEMAN:Right. Here, in a way PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:... I think we have to PRESIDENT:Yeah, I mean, the President has to know. I mean,uh, what uh, what uh, what what happened on thatday?ZIEGLER:Okay. PRESIDENT:I mean, uh, what is his recollection? Just liketo, like to know and that--er, RonZIEGLER:Yes, sir.PRESIDENT:...under no circumstances (unintelligible) no,no, we can't.ZIEGLER:Right. PRESIDENT:Uh, we can't talk about it, but uh,(unintelligible)--I think with this one we have to know.ZIEGLER:Okay.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.92(Door closes)(Unintelligible conversation/REMOVED)PRESIDENT:Well, let's see what we can do--uh, John, uh, I,I told Bob, uh, what your suggestion was and he said that we can't do that. (Unintelligible) part of the case and we have to--it's simply--makes the case. But the reaction to that, and so forth.EHRLICHMAN:That was Frank Strickler's reaction, too.PRESIDENT:Who is Frank Strickler?EHRLICHMAN:Our, uh, our number two lawyer. PRESIDENT:What did he say? EHRLICHMAN:He said he just--he didn't think that we had,uh, anything to worry about and that it was not that big a deal. He said it was a big deal forPat Gray, but it won't mean anything to you.Once we get, uh, get a position on it.PRESIDENT:But, well, what did he think you should get aposition on?EHRLICHMAN:That's what we talked. I sent a copy of thisover to him and, uh, with the under standingthat we would talk about (unintelligible) wantto talk about. (Pause)PRESIDENT:All our problems were (unintelligible/REMOVED)but the most stupid thing that you couldpossibly have the Director (unintelligible) I'll never forget the look of shock on (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.93EHRLICHMAN:What--did, did Petersen say that when he talkedto Gray the first time that it was a casualconversation, and doesn't Pat hold that againsthim, or something to that effect?PRESIDENT:No. He said, "Yes," he said that Gray is sortacasual and he asked him twice and that--Kleindienst told me that Gray denied twice that he had gotten the documents. He denied it twice. And then finally refreshed hisrecollection and said, "Yes, I got it." (Pause)HALDEMAN:Then it's then Petersen tended to appreciatethat. I gather it (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:Appreciated, you mean, uh, uh, did it offendGray?HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:No, no, no, no, no, he just said that. He sayshe just, he's just gotta take over this thing. And he said one of those god-damned thing is uh, just uh, you know, he--I don&#8482;t--know.(Twenty Second pause)PRESIDENT:Not that it's--makes a hell of a lot ofdifference but who do you think, what do youthink the source of this--(unintelligible) right out of the Grand--not the Grand Jury--U.S. Attorney or Dean?EHRLICHMAN:Dean.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.94PRESIDENT:You think Dean?EHRLICHMAN:Dean, yeah.(Pause)It hasn't been to the Grand Jury. Either got tobe the Justice Department or Dean or me.PRESIDENT:Well, obviously (unintelligible) the Grand Jury,but I meant, u-, u-, u-, u-, by the Justice Department, the prosecuting team, the lawyers' department, the prosecuting team. See,undoubtedly (unintelligible).ZIEGLER:He had just left for home, his secretary says. HALDEMAN:Ha! (Unintelligible)(Pause)PRESIDENT:Well, Ron, I think that's what you have to dohere. That son-of-a-bitch.ZIEGLER:You know...PRESIDENT:Ah, it's a story that will effectively knockhim--destroy him. Get the word to the FBI and I'll soon know whether the FBI Director--what he's gonna say. But, I don't care what he says, Gray's got to go tomorrow. Or would you agree?ZIEGLER:Yes, sir. I would agree.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.95PRESIDENT:He can't--I mean, if he, if, if he destroyedthem because he was ordered to (unintelligible)if he destroyed them. (Unintelligible)--he'sgotta go either way. You see my point is, uh, that this potentially happens. Right?HALDEMAN:Well, hell, material given to the eminentDirector of the FBI in his official capacity, to identify the sensitive materials not related to the case at hand--purpose of giving them to himobviously was to have, have them retained.PRESIDENT:Sure. HALDEMAN:He went out and destroyed it. The guy is afrigging idiot.PRESIDENT:That's right. That's exactly what happened.That's the truth in that.EHRLICHMAN:I didn't want any part of it. He asked me why,and IHALDEMAN:He said he was gonna lie and asked you tocorroborate his lie.PRESIDENT:That's right. EHRLICHMAN:And never, interestingly enough, never said,"But you told me to destroy this."HALDEMAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:No. No, that's new. That's new. But I(unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.96EHRLICHMAN:Which put it back...PRESIDENT:Right. Right.EHRLICHMAN:...and then the normal reaction...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) when I called back if I hadsaid, "Pat, you're gonna have to tell the truth, "if, if, in fact, he believed that I had instructed him, he would have said, "Well, yeah&#64258;, so and so, and so and so.EHRLICHMAN:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:You've got pretty good witnesses to thatconversation.EHRLICHMAN:One--at least one of whom I can use. (Laughter) HALDEMAN:Use that, can use that one. I'm not sure I(unintelligible) could anymore. (Pause)PRESIDENT:If he goes, I think, uh--who could I do with asActing Director?HALDEMAN:I don't think you should (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:But, uh, Bob, is there anybody else over therenow, Bob, John, the Department of Justice that I could use? (Unintelligible). Okay, Ron, my boy.ZIEGLER:Okay, I'll be reporting back.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.97PRESIDENT:Can you report back on your Dean conversation?ZIEGLER:Yes, sir.PRESIDENT:Thank you. You got anything else you want toask about?ZIEGLER:No. PRESIDENT:All right. Okay, Ron.(Pause, door closes)UNIDENTIFIED:Ambrose. PRESIDENT:You can put Ambrose in there as Acting. Whereis Ambrose now?UNIDENTIFIED:He's still over in the Narcotics Administration.He's about to leave. You could ask him to stay on for awhile.PRESIDENT:I'd rather put somebody like that in than to putFelt in. Right?UNIDENTIFIED:Yeah.EHRLICHMAN:If Ambrose, if he won't do it for a couple ofmonths, why, uh, you know, he's clean and, uh, (unintelligible) political coloration. New York Republican. Is he a campaigner? Would he agree to help as a campaign worker, because...PRESIDENT:Oh, no. No, no. It...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.98EHRLICHMAN:Regarding that because of qualifications well,anyway, back when he had campaigned a lot, not alot, yeahPRESIDENT:For us? UNIDENTIFIED:Sure. He's conservative. PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:So he has a political coloration (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Yeah, but I'm not, (laughs) the point is I'm not,uh, we're not putting him in there for, well,remember the (unintelligible) Senate confirmation.We're just thinking of somebody temporary until somebody else can be put in there.HALDEMAN:Uh huh.(Pause) Well, you could bring somebody like this James Q.Wilson from Harvard in temporarily, with the understanding in advance that he was only temporary'cause you're not considering him on a full timebasis.PRESIDENT:We really ought to get somebody in the government.How about Ruckelshaus? Sure. (Unintelligible) Ruckelshaus, just for a couple of months?HALDEMAN:Let him take a leave of absence. PRESIDENT:Yeah.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.99HALDEMAN:But this other thing--take this one?(Pause)(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Well, we've been thinking (unintelligible) apossibility for the job, too.HALDEMAN:Right. Right. Right. He probably wouldn't beinterested in this as a permanent thing, but (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:If it's.a temporary thing, maybe--(Forty Second Pause)PRESIDENT:Well, I don't know what Dean is trying to proveby this, uh, but (unintelligible). (Pause) (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Yeah(unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:But that kind of--the way the story came fromthe Times, it was that Gray had told friends de-da, de-da, but that's a standard New York Times, that line. (Unintelligible).(Pause) (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Can I see, uh, John, uh, can I see what you havein my statement?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.100EHRLICHMAN:Sure. Then I'll -Bob changes it somehow. I'llread it to you if I could. It&#8482;s pretty screwedup (unintelligible). "Mr. Gray received some ofthe contents of the Hunt safe from Mr. Ehrlichman's office from Mr. Dean in June, 1972. Mr. Dean had previously sealed it in a large envelope. Mr. Gray was told by Mr. Dean that the contents were sensitive materials not in any way related to the Watergate case. Mr.Ehrlichman was present but neither then nor atany other time did he give Mr. Gray any request, suggestion, or instruction regarding what should be done with the contents. Mr. Ehrlichman does not know the nature of the contents. Up until April 15, Mr. Ehrlichman assumed the FBIDirector still had the contents. Mr. Ehrlichmandiscovered certain new facts concerning the contents of the Hunt safe on April 15, 1973. He promptly reported his findings to the President the same day, and they were relayed to Mr. Petersen, the Assistant Attorney General. Thematter has been under investigation by himsince."PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). EHRLICHMAN:"Certain new fact concerning the contents"(unintelligible) "concerning the status of the contents."PRESIDENT:Yeah. That's right.EHRLICHMAN:Or the, uh, the current, uh, position of thecontents or something. Condition -the status -we already got that.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.101PRESIDENT:Concerning, concerning the, uh...EHRLICHMAN:The status of the contents. The disposition.UNIDENTIFIED:Yeah.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Oh, the disposition is the--what I'm driving at. EHRLICHMAN:Yeah. Yeah. PRESIDENT:You gonna let Ziegler put that out, or will thatbe your (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:(Unintelligible) a couple of first names(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:What's your thought, John, have, uh, Ziegler putthat out?EHRLICHMAN:Well, Ron would rather not. He, he would rathernot.PRESIDENT:Yeah, (unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Petersen, Petersen (unintelligible). Ehrlichman(unintelligible). You say I, I, I, you see.PRESIDENT:Why don't you just put out the statementyourself, John?EHRLICHMAN:Fine. PRESIDENT:I think it's best...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.102EHRLICHMAN: Fine.PRESIDENT:I think it's best that you do that rather thanhaving--Ron should stay in a position, "I'm notgonna comment on this case," so forth and so on.EHRLICHMAN:The White House Office could still put it out.Gerry Warren just puts it outPRESIDENT:Yeah. EHRLICHMAN:...as a.statement by John D. Ehrlichman. PRESIDENT:Yeah. That's what I say. I, er.(Fifty Second Pause)PRESIDENT:He told me, incidentally, that the judge istaking under advisement the situation-didn't I, didn't I tell you?EHRLICHMAN:No. PRESIDENT:He is taking under advisement-the situation withregard to--(unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:Um hmm. PRESIDENT:The break-in, and, uh, he is making, making nodecision on this (unintelligible) the Bradyissue (unintelligible) now, or hold in-gto the fact that (unintelligible) post trial(unintelligible) grounds that it's just not, uh,pertaining (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:I would hope and pray that they were(unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.103EHRLICHMAN:Now, did I, er, understand from your end of theconversation that they're still trying to getDean to make a guilty plea?(Pause)PRESIDENT:(Sighs) You see, here's the problem.(Pause) They got Magruder ready to plead. But they needDean to--and, uh, um-(Pause)EHRLICHMAN:Are Magruder and Dean (unintelligible)?PRESIDENT:No. They're not. They're...HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). EHRLICHMAN:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Who basically, as I say, were mortal enemies(unintelligible) Dean and Magruder are.EHRLICHMAN:Well, Magruder ran for his ass very much; Deanhad to coach him into his perjury.PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah. That's--Dean (unintelligible). Hecan slide out of everything else, but that, I can't see any, anything, any--all right. So they'll still talk to their lawyers with regard to, uh, what Dean is gonna do. And I guess Deanlogged this kind of stuff in for the purpose ofincreasing his bargaining power. If then-(Pause)APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.104PRESIDENT:continuedOn the plea, wouldn't you (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:I don't know.PRESIDENT:Well, what... EHRLICHMAN:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Go ahead. EHRLICHMAN:(Unintelligible) what it's about. PRESIDENT:Well, just say, "But, but at the ending, uh,cross that bridge wherever it comes(unintelligible) of the blackmail.&#64258; John, don'tyou agree?EHRLICHMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:Huh? EHRLICHMAN: No. PRESIDENT:You can't do it. You can't do it. You, youcan't be, I can't be. Even a Presidency cannotbe and, uh, (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:How can you ask me what I mean in my notes, Ididn't (unintelligible). I had I better calland redictate this (unintelligible/REMOVED).PRESIDENT:Yeah. Would you like to (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:May give it to a secretary...PRESIDENT:Yeah, Jan's around.(Pause)APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.105PRESIDENT:continuedI wonder if this changes our situation, John,with regard to (unintelligible). (Pause) Thebook, you know. I wonder if you (unintelligible) move on it today (unintelligible) long time. (Pause) (Unintelligible) expect contributions. You've got that problem. And I--there's no way, Bob, I can figure the son-of-a bitch. You heard what Itold him? And I said get him in(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:Well, that's ttue. He talked, uh, to theirlawyers and apparently got into a plea.HALDEMAN:I don't really understand that. Why do theyhave to get into plea? Why don't they justsubpoena (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Well, to get more out of it. HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). I wondered if(unintelligible), but you shouldn't hit Ron, allof you. (Pause) (Unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.106EHRLICHMAN:(Unintelligible) uh. Mr. Ziegler, please.PRESIDENT:Uh, (unintelligible) get more deeply involved.(Phone rings)Yeah, hold on your Dean call(unintelligible/REMOVED).HALDEMAN:You either...PRESIDENT:This is a pretty--you know what I mean, youcan't, uh, (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:This is not deadly problem. It's damaging butnot here. Unless Gray decides to take this,this course--if he tries to--if he goes out that way. I'm sure we can because it shatters the FBI (unintelligible). But that's inevitable. And that's--we cannot do that. No matter what Gray says. Even if he was ordered to destroy it anddid, uh--it shatters him. But, I--this is why Itotally believe Dean. I am absolutely convinced he did not tell Gray to destroy them.PRESIDENT:Did Dean--did you ever pass Dean or did you everget to discuss this with him?HALDEMAN:Yeah. And Dean said I didn't discuss it withhim, he told me about it, but this is one thathe considered one of his greatest moves. Was--now Dean does sayPRESIDENT:Ehrlichman told him to destroy it but he didn'tdo it.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.107HALDEMAN:But he said I was too smart for that. I figuredout how to do it, which is to put it in thehands of Pat Gray and then, then, have the FBIput it in a sealed envelope that won't be used by these bastards who were leaking stuff out of the FBI. Just put in the Director's office in secret files.UNIDENTIFIED:He thought that was an accident. HALDEMAN:That's for sure. He went back and as Iunderstand it Ehrlichman agreed with him(unintelligible) much better idea (unintelligible). That's his line. I have no reason to believe Ehrlichman did tell him to destroy it. I have a feeling he decided to destroy it.UNIDENTIFIED: (Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Gray did it? HALDEMAN:No, Dean did it. But then he thought throughthat he shouldn't destroy it. But soon figured out that the way to avoid the strike was to turn it over to Gray. We turned the other stuff overto the FBI agents (unintelligible) Gray. Idon't think Dean--I really don't think Dean tried to destroy them.PRESIDENT:Oh, I know (unintelligible).(Pause)HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible).(Pause)APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.108UNIDENTIFIED:Dean hates Gray because Gray called him a liarand (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Then Dean could pos-, possibly could say thatEhrlichman ordered him,"to destroy it.HALDEMAN:And then you mean, because we have to try andget both Ehrlichman and Gray (unintel ligible). I don't think he knew it, I think Dean--Dean's interest--if you wanted to get Gray, this is a hell of a good way to get Gray. But when hesaid that I didn't tell him to destroy lem, thedumb son-of-a-bitch did that himself.PRESIDENT:Look, you've been through, now&#352;we&#8482;ve beenthrough most of the stuff (unintelligible) March 21st thing to be quite honest that's his (unintelligible) that is his, uh, trump card,that's his trump card.HALDEMAN:No. PRESIDENT:You don't think that's his trump card? What thehell do you think his trump card (unintelligible)?HALDEMAN:I would guess it's Petersen.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible/REMOVED). This administration(unintelligible). No, on this one--on this onehe's (unintelligible). The encouraging part about it is the latter part that you wrote me today. Do you (unintelligible) legal matters. You recall it quite categorically (unintelligible) we went through all thedocuments and personal papers (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.109HALDEMAN:And if you go--if you go into something that hasto be purged, I would say yes-this is, this isthe worst, uh, trump card he's got. If it ishis trump. (Unintelligible) I don't think it pulls his scheme off.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:Because I don't think they could do that. In thefirst place I think it's defensible, but in the second place I don't think it's--I don't see howthey can do anything with any of it.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:No, Petersen. The other thing is Dean could gopublic with it. Uh...PRESIDENT:Does Dean worry (unintelligible) ought to handleher.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)(Pause)PRESIDENT:That's why I don't understand what they wantwith you (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:I don't know yet. PRESIDENT:But we'd better get Dean to the Grand Jury.HALDEMAN:I don't (unintelligible) Dean. But I think--wecan't try to, uh...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.110PRESIDENT:We can't try too but I can't be a witness either(unintelligible). So he says he has, so he sayshe had a certain conversation with me. Whatwould the damages be (unintelligible)?HALDEMAN:Well, if he does that, then what I would have toput out--uh, the whole story. That you were investigating this thing. That you were drawing Dean out. That you went through a whole series of questions and, uh, alternatives pushing to,to drive out, draw out lines and, uh, you know.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Well, you know. See, when this mattercame up, I called you into the office (unintelligible) I put up with (unintelligible) but you were involved with Don Segretti, weren't you? (Unintelligible) I mean, I don't care. ButI wouldn't put it all out. I'd, ah, I'd simplyflatly deny it.HALDEMAN:Yeah, well (unintelligible) PRESIDENT:I think what you have to say is it's an act of adesperate man. That's when the, uh, that particular point in time, that's exactly whatthe President--the President at that time didnot see that.HALDEMAN:Where is the President when (unintelligible).You have to (unintelligible) to destroy Dean. If he puts that out, then you've got to destroy them both.PRESIDENT:That's right.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.111HALDEMAN:You can't worry about nuances (unintelligible)because then (unintelligible) uh, uh(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Well, that much. Should Moore ever talk toDean?HALDEMAN:Well, I don't know. I, I don't know to whatend. I don't know...PRESIDENT:See if there's any--just for the purpose ofsaying, "John, want to be a man to man(unintelligible). Bill, the record is(unintelligible/REMOVED).&#64258; Not when you getinto the fact that Ehrlichman and Haldeman are(unintelligible/REMOVED).EHRLICHMAN:Maybe so. If only you don't do it.PRESIDENT:Me? I will never see him.EHRLICHMAN:You can't--I thinkPRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). EHRLICHMAN:You can't take any more overt moves. PRESIDENT:No. EHRLICHMAN:Uh, just passes why Dean (unintelligible). Thatmakes a record that you can't (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible/REMOVED) thank God they are theone I always make, but nevertheless it's uhEHRLICHMAN:You can't. I don't, I don't mean...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.112PRESIDENT:Why shouldn't Moore?HALDEMAN:Maybe Moore could. Dick Moore is(unintelligible).UNIDENTIFIED:(Unintelligible) Watergate. HALDEMAN:You have the insight (unintelligible)difficulty.(Pause)PRESIDENT:But they're not trying to get Moore(unintelligible) Petersen (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:If Moore's going to do it, I'm afraid you'llhave to ask him. Because I don't think he would take anything. I thinkPRESIDENT:I asked HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:I'm asking your judgment as to whether or notyou think Moore (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:And if he doesn't--I think you've got tosay--you've got to ask him to do it. Without giving the reason why.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) to Moore.PRESIDENT:That's right.(Pause)APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.113HALDEMAN:If then--if you have that, if you have Moorein a position to be able to say the Presidenttold me (unintelligible) Dean (unintelligible)Petersen's friend. Why?PRESIDENT:Well, you've got Dean in a position (unintelligible) Moore.HALDEMAN:Moore should be instructed not to say that youtold him to do it.PRESIDENT:Moore...HALDEMAN:In doing that...PRESIDENT:Moore, Moore is gonna pay me(unintelligible/REMOVED). Well...HALDEMAN:I'm afraid that's one thing I've lost under thisis trust in anybody. Just try to figure who you can trust and who you can't (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Except me. You've got to trust me.HALDEMAN:Oh, I do. I'm talking about any of the other(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) I've gotta trust him (unintelligible) trust him (unintelligible). (Fifteen seconds uinintelligible/REMOVED). Yes,sir.PRESIDENT:I would say one thing, too. Remember, you andyour lawyers say that Grand Jury (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.114HALDEMAN:I think, I think soPRESIDENT:Your lawyers still think that, uh, you've beenon the, uh, cover-up team.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Do you think that, uh... HALDEMAN:Well, if you could do that, then my position isthat there is nobody on earth that you might discuss that with.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) Strachan.HALDEMAN:No, sir. I didn't discuss it with Strachan.He's a donkey. There is no way Dean could corroborate anything (unintelligible). There is no way that, that the prosecutor could corroborate Dean's testimonyPRESIDENT:Getting back to (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:No, and when I (unintelligible) and I've neversaid to Dean anything that (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Getting back to the critical question(unintelligible). This certification I'm prepared to (unintelligible) too bad that you would, it would put Dean in the same bag, we'vegot--I've got to get him the hell out of here.But what about the Liddy thing? What about it, John? (Pause) (Unintelligible) too sure they are (unintelligible) people in all that the (unintelligible) capital (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.115EHRLICHMAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) capital (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:That's right.HALDEMAN:I don't know. What do you mean by it? I've beentempted by the (unintelligible) to be perfectly frank 'cause I don't, I don't--I have a difficult, basic problem right now, uh, I either have to take a leave...PRESIDENT:Or you've got to run the show.HALDEMAN:Or I've got to get back and start running thisplacePRESIDENT:You're goddamned right. HALDEMAN:This is the point Henry made. He said, "Ifyou're gonna stay here, you've gotta start giving some orders and cracking some heads..."PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:"Banging things around. I mean you can't juststay here in limbo."PRESIDENT:I know Bob. That's John's problem. John's(unintelligible) mind could not really, you know, concentrate on it very much. That's thereal problem.HALDEMAN:And it's been hard, too, when you get, you know,every afternoon, you know, you just sit here knowing...PRESIDENT:Some other story's gonna turn up.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.116HALDEMAN:You don't know what it's gonna be. But youknow, goddamned well, the phone's gonna ring andZiegler's going to say "Yes, what's the matterwith (unintelligible).&#64258; I get it every night at home. I got a call from him last night and said, "Where do I have to be quoted on that story?&#64258; He said, he said, "I hate to disappoint you, but there is a plan." Uh, I want to uh--I'll tell you if it's Dean to leave, it's very tempting.It bothers the lawyersPRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...not nearly as much as the resignation, 'causethe resignation...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:They say thenPRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)EHRLICHMAN:...really cut it off. PRESIDENT:The leading thing that it could be, uh,-let me,let me spin it out the way I would feel. Uh, the way I-would say, uh, because of this, this, the charges that are made and so forth, at firstI get, I, I would put out the same--at the sametime I would put out, I would put out the statements of the lawyers 'cause I have your statement. Uh, the lawyers (unintelligible) uh, however, I, I, I hear, hear they can't do those things, so forth and so on. However, because of the charges and so forth that have been made andwill continue toAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.117PRESIDENT;continuedbe made, leaks from the Grand Jury, the story of(unintelligible) and so forth and so on, myhope--that (unintelligible) conduct the office (unintelligible). I feel under the circumstances that uh, the proper course of action is to allow you--my theory is for me to take a leave, until uh.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.118[Reel 5 begins]PRESIDENT:until (unintelligible) like to have an(Cont.)opportunity to clear myself of charges or until,until, I am completely clear of these charges or any others (unintelligible) charges or are any other wrongdoing uh, because I can't, uh, with integrity, which you have insisted upon (unintelligible)...[Reel 4 ends]PRESIDENT:...and, uh, I. I, would say(unintelligible/REMOVED) I just, must--re-thinking. I told, told Ron to help. Told himto call the Dean as to, whether we wanna get--whether maybe if we ought not to do that.UNIDENTIFIED:Um hum.PRESIDENT:That is why, uh, my (unintelligible) gave thatcontrol if, if, if give you any information first, first Dean's gonna say one of two things. He'll either say, well, one, uh, Ehrlichman told him to destroy it, which would be false. And then you'll have to say-then you're up againsttwo people lying, or you've gotta say, uh, PatGray is lying. It might not (unintelligible) destroy them. Let's just let it develop naturally.EHRLICHMAN:And the facts are now we have something from himalready. Uh, now, Ron thinks probably this should not come out of his office.PRESIDENT:Yeah, uh, could you get, uh, Ziegler?(Hangs up telephone)PRESIDENT:Well, you could put it, uh, out of your office.I mean, how do you do it (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:Well, I don't know. Uh, my attorney, I suppose.(Telephone rings)APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.119PRESIDENT:Yeah. I Just can't (unintelligible) call Dean,uh, Dean. Will you do that? Yeah. Dean. Right.Okay. Just say that, uh, (unintelligible).Okay. Thank you, thank you. Okay (unintelligible) Just, uh, there's an inquiry here about, uh (unintelligible). Very good. Bye.(Hangs up telephone)EHRLICHMAN:I just talked to Wilson.PRESIDENT:Yeah.EHRLICHMAN:And, uh, he, he approved this, and uh, doesn'tmind except that, uh, this whole thing in context is nothing to get excited about unless Gray makes a statement which implicates you or me or somebody around here, in which case,(unintelligible) it's gonna have to be handled(unintelligible).He says you're not going to settle for the firststory, regardless of the man and his job, the statement implicating, for example, uh, (unintelligible).UNIDENTIFIED:The President ordered him to destroy this?EHRLICHMAN:Well, no, he's saying if there's any evidencethat the White House ordered it. He said that's gonna -that's gonna, back headlines so big that you never saw the statement you put out, anyway, he said.UNIDENTIFIED:Pretty good. Yeah, yeah.PRESIDENT:Kleindienst (unintelligible) no Petersen,Petersen. Yeah.HALDEMAN:You have to say this old guy is a pretty good PRman.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) he, uh, uh, I guess(unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.120EHRLICHMAN:He said, "Do not try to get John Dean'sconcurrence or cooperation.&#64258; He said(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Right. EHRLICHMAN:You were just saying, and, uh, he had a littlelanguage to change. So, uh, I'm, I'm ready to go on this, and I'll just defer to your judgment and so forth, on how, how to put it out. Obviously, I would rather put it out here. Thisis where my office is. This is where I'm doingbusiness, but, uh, uh, I don't ask Ziegler to vouch for it, uh--HALDEMAN:Just put out a little statement by JohnEhrlichman. They run it off and then (unintelligible) stick it out there(unintelligible) also press secretary(unintelligible) the point is--PRESIDENT:Why, just give it to the-just call in a New YorkTimes reporter and give it to him.HALDEMAN:You could call (unintelligible). EHRLICHMAN:Yeah.HALDEMAN:And just say, uh, "You put a girl on. I'lldictate my statement."PRESIDENT:Yeah, that's the way I think I'd do it. EHRLICHMAN:Right. PRESIDENT:I think that's fair (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:The New York Times will compose it. PRESIDENT:Right. Say you've gotta, you've gotta call thepress office.HALDEMAN:Then the press office refers to your statementin the Times.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.121EHRLICHMAN:Or, I could give them a copy of it as I gave itto the Times and if they get inquiries on it,they just say, say, "Well, we've got a copy ofthe statement he gave to the Times."HALDEMAN:That's right. So they put it back out and findan answer.PRESIDENT:Certainly. HALDEMAN:We should talk about--certainly we've been doingit as individual answer type. If the televisionreporter got (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:Yeah, okay, that's what we'll do.(Unintelligible) I better go and do that. That office has a deadline.PRESIDENT:All right. Fine. Do that. I've gotta try toget (unintelligible).HALDEMAN(Unintelligible) You ought to stay until you putsomeone on to dictate my statement that I--at this stage, we appreciate your (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Yeah. EHRLICHMAN:Do that on a personal basis. HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Good night. Bye, John--trying to get--HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) Gray sure appreciated puttingall this (unintelligible). (Pause)HALDEMAN:How would you do that on the (unintelligible),What would you--would you bring someone in to take over the role?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.122PRESIDENT:I think you'd have to, particularly with Cole,(unintelligible) Ehrlichman, in that job.HALDEMAN:Is Rush (unintelligible)?PRESIDENT:I think it's a (unintelligible) thought of Rush,of Rush.HALDEMAN:The New York Times says it has it all solved(unintelligible). (Telephone rings)HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) serious. PRESIDENT:Hello. Yeah. I wondered if you'd had your talkwith uh, with Patrick. Yeah. Let me say, letme say that, uh, the one picture I think that (unintelligible) about this, that is totally devastating, because, uh, I have checked my notes on what Dean's told everybody here. Uh, I also, on this, this, this matter and, uh,Ehrlichman has put out, has put out his littlestatement. Pat Gray (unintelligible) was not told to destroy any, and he must not say that. That's that. You see, that's gonna compound it. Particularly in view of the fact that he had two conversations (unintelligible) where heremembered getting it. The, the, the onlything, if you--you see, if he agrees, you've gotta put it to him quite personally. I, I don't want to do it myself if necessary, but I will. But he can't do that because I would have to say he lied on it, so--Yeah, yeah. But, but, let me say--no, no, he, he must not. All that doesis to say--look, uh, you understand? It doesn'thelp, it doesn't help him, uh, anymore and it hurts terribly here. You know the point? Yeah, yeah, just as a result of this, yeah, I understand. But, what do you do about Dean then? Uh, print it up or something? Yeah.(Pause) Yeah. On Gray? Well, I'm notsuggesting that, uh, Gray will go, uh, uh.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.123PRESIDENT:We don't have to do that to him the firstcontinuedthing, and just based on this one story. Isthat what you're suggesting? Well, I'm, I'm notwell, I'm, I'm, well, think about it. I agree. I agree, cause he's got a right to his day in court, too, and we don't have, and another thing--I don't have a substitute, not yet. Okay.(Hangs up telephone)PRESIDENT:He's got a point there. He says, "I just don'tsee how you can have Gray go and others not go, too.&#64258; The whole, you know what I mean, uh, story. Well, it's (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:I don't understand that. That guy is justsomewhat, for some reason, he&#8482;s obsessed withour leaving the--PRESIDENT:Well, how can he? HALDEMAN:Everything. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) what I told you(unintelligible) said about Dean.HALDEMAN:Not to him?PRESIDENT:No. I said, "What about Dean?"HALDEMAN:What'd he say? PRESIDENT:He said,"Well (unintelligible)" He said, the, Isaid, "You can't--if you're gonna say that somebody else lose, uh, uh&#352;&#64257;HALDEMAN:There&#8482;s something, I checked with(unintelligible). Why does he want to get outnow? I'll tell you.PRESIDENT:That his case-- HALDEMAN:Well, if Ehrlichman goes out, he's got oneAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.124HALDEMAN:hell of a problem, Petersen has. Ehrlichmancontinuedis, is--he's hell-bent to destroy Petersen.PRESIDENT:Well, will Petersen do this to Gray?HALDEMAN:Yes. PRESIDENT:To Dean-- HALDEMAN:...in alliance with Dean. See, John's convincedthat Petersen's out to get him because the--and that the Justice Department knew about it because John tried to remove Petersen along witheverybody else except one guy, one of the peoplehe failed&#352;the New York Division.PRESIDENT:Oh, yeah. HALDEMAN:And what I mean, Kleindienst may be wrong aboutBaker (unintelligible) Petersen (unintelligible) but I have a feeling that he has his motivationto try to get John out of here and, uh, knowsthat if John stays in here and survives this, that Petersen never (unintelligible) again.PRESIDENT:What do you think, looking back(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Frankly, we need, uh, I, I, I guess I agree withthis, with that, that, I, I, I (unintelligible) concluding that I know this is a problem. The problem we have is getting the God damn White House (unintelligible). I mean, IHALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Yeah, and I, I mean, I, I really can't. I can'tcall (unintelligible) do is worry about otherthings and so forth, you know, matters and that sort of thing. I don't--APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.125PRESIDENT:I think I'd put the burden on somebodycontinuedelse (unintelligible) obviously, uh(unintelligible). Well, the other thing's true,too.HALDEMAN:The other thing you could do is put the burdento someone else and then just leave &#8218;em here. Another thing, you have a facade of a few hours, a day of, of subsequent stuff.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:...that people (unintelligible) and get John todo the same.PRESIDENT:I really feel (unintelligible). I've gotta feelthat (unintelligible) almost at this point, Bob, fight the God damn thing better outside (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Personally, I agree with that. I told you, I...PRESIDENT:Your lawyers don't agree with that. HALDEMAN:...I'd feel better and I--it, it'd work betterand everything else. Uh, I'd have a hell of a time if I resigned, because I'd lose all of the facilities in one way or another...PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:...and you lose that fear, (unintelligible) yousee, which should be, which is an extremely important fear to have in the mind of the prosecutors and other people.PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:Once I, once I'm resigned...PRESIDENT:Well, (unintelligible) I...HALDEMAN:Do everything again (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:To leave, to leave, to leave...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.126HALDEMAN:They've still got (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:...to leave here, that's why-and I say once thisthing--is uh, uh, clear (unintelligible) andthen that at least carries you through the trial. That's what I want--through the God damn trial, and after that, you may want to resign.HALDEMAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:You probably will. HALDEMAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:And (unintelligible) will say, "Christ, I've hadenough of this shit&#64258;, and uh, that's that.HALDEMAN:I think that may be right. PRESIDENT:And John Dean wants it, too, (unintelligible)undoubtedly before (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Of course you may, you may find then it all getscleared up, and you'll be in good shape when youcome back. There's some different kind of a wayPRESIDENT:A different way. Well, is this it? HALDEMAN:...which may be inevitable anyway. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) totally different way.PRESIDENT:Totally different.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:And, uh, just work on a broader basis. PRESIDENT:Of course, you know, uh, in other words, afterthe, uh--APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.127HALDEMAN:Not in politics, you could never use me...PRESIDENT:Never in politics.HALDEMAN:...in any political thing again.PRESIDENT:But, Haldeman, what I really want you for,frankly, is, uh, I, I really want to cut it out. I, I'm getting (unintelligible). Sure, you're the (unintelligible) of the God damn foundation.HALDEMAN:Uh. PRESIDENT:But maybe you don't want to do that.HALDEMAN:No, I don't know. I don't know whether Ishould.PRESIDENT:For your sake? HALDEMAN:Yes. PRESIDENT:Well, we'll see, we'll see, but you could dosomething else in Government (unintelligible)--not ev--nothing that required confirmation.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) I don't want to stay inGovernment.PRESIDENT:Huh? HALDEMAN:I have no interest (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Well, why'd you say you'd come back and dosomething else?HALDEMAN:The White House, that would be the only place,and...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...but not as Chief of Staff. PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:You could come back as, as--APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.128PRESIDENT:Staff Director.HALDEMAN:I want to do it because I think I'd get out ofthe mainstream (unintelligible) I think he'sprobably right.PRESIDENT:Anyway, that's--let's don't cross that bridge.My point is to leave, it seems to me it becomes really imperative from the standpoint of running the White House. That's what I'm concerned about. I, I just--I know this, I know nobodywould even--nobody would even come, uh,within--I mean it's imperative-running, morale, everything else, you know what I mean? Uh, it isn't putting it in good faith to say that the President cut his losses, he's got to cut through you--it's a very good cut, but the pointis, is, is really that, but I really feel, fromthe standpoint of running it, you gotta get somebody (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:That's right. That's the point. PRESIDENT:I think that I could get Rush, try to run thisplace.HALDEMAN:And some of those guys that (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Sure. How did we come up with Dean? Listen, letme ask you this, who--HALDEMAN:How about Bill Casey? PRESIDENT:Do you think held be better? HALDEMAN:I don't know. PRESIDENT:Rush?HALDEMAN:Rush would be easier for you.PRESIDENT:The point about is that Rush has got a littlemore class.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.129HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:I mean, basically, he's...HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:...a lot like you as far... HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Whereas I think Casey's kind of dirty. PRESIDENT:Yeah. I think he's sort of political. Rush istotally apolitical, which I like. Cole isperfect for the, uh, Ehrlichman, and, uh, what Imeant is that he's gonna have to grow a hell of a lot, but, uh, Cole'll be very good. Just gonna have to, to deal with the public, an effective Chief of Staff. Well, one of the beauties of your situation is that you've gotyour organization. Parker's doing a terrificjob. Bull, I just can't (unintelligible) I used to bother you, but he's doing a hell of a job, he really is.HALDEMAN:Yeah. Bull (unintelligible) his own judgment(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:But I'll make the judgments.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) you see... PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:Steve (unintelligible) and Parker is, is good onpaper.PRESIDENT:Yeah, and I wanna get to know them all. I wantto get to know Parker better.HALDEMAN:That's Parker's strength.PRESIDENT:Parker, uh, on basic stra--schedule--is he good? HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Is he a good (unintelligible) of Congress ornot?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.130HALDEMAN:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:And, uh, in the (unintelligible) of paper workand all that (unintelligible) is, is superb.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:He really is. He's. a young guy, but God is he(unintelligible). And he's doing it all anyway. I don&#8482;t really, I mean, I just...PRESIDENT:How do you think we'll do with regard to Higby.He wouldn't want (unintelligible) I suppose.HALDEMAN:White House.PRESIDENT:I don't wanna--I just don&#8482;t wanna have problemaround, problem area there.HALDEMAN:I think you probably ought to get him out. PRESIDENT:Yeah. See what I mean? It's--Ron is a problemarea. Higby--Christ with...HALDEMAN:I think you oughta get him out just becausethey'll call him as a witness (unintelligible)if they make a case on me, you're talking about.If I'm only a witness, they won't call him.PRESIDENT:No, I know. HALDEMAN:If I&#8482;m, if I'm a target (unintelligible) PRESIDENT:Them, then, they'll have him, that's, uh, that'sbad (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:If you brought a guy like Rush in, Higby couldbe useful as hell...PRESIDENT:Oh, Christ.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.131HALDEMAN:knows more than I do about (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Now what would you do with this? You could letHigby stay on a leave basis. Letting him stayuntil the Grand Jury (unintelligible) these people break Rush in (unintelligible) that, that&#8482;s the way I, I look at it.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:He won't.PRESIDENT:Hell of an operator. Any of his aides.HALDEMAN:He'll be a good man. PRESIDENT:Now, then, the problem to leave(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Stop in September. PRESIDENT:Only when all of this is cleared away. That,that (unintelligible) gets us away from the endof the Grand Jury, if he indicts you, and if you're not indicted, you could come back. No? You&#8482;re gonna have to say maybe to me then.HALDEMAN:Well, see, we&#8482;re not now. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:We don't know what their answer's gonna be.PRESIDENT:Don&#8482;t know the answer. That&#8482;s right, but thepoint is we wanna be cleared of these charges of having to meet the Grand Jury, the committee, everything else. I'd put it all out. You know what I mean? You've gotta go before that damn committee at some point and you wouldn't want tocome back here and have to go before thecommittee from here. So, really, that's what it comes down to. I think in Ehrlichmants case, I (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.132HALDEMAN:You testify paying the taxpayers' money(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:We, oh, we can't go on (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:I think (unintelligible) basically, I've gotta(unintelligible) but for about six months.PRESIDENT:Yeah. That's right. It's, it's--do we, do wegive leave at this point?HALDEMAN:No, but what we do, the thing about leave--weask you to give us all the time we want...PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:...getting ready to go. PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) possibly have six months. Youcan just say we...PRESIDENT:Both of you have several months of leave.HALDEMAN:Take a month. We've never--taken leave or--PRESIDENT:Yeah. Eight holidays, eight, or eight or tenmajor holidays, and several months (unintelligible). Then there must come a time, of course, when we break it off.HALDEMAN:Either this is going to go on forever--you can'tdrag it on (unintelligible) when you've passedthe legal (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:It may get to that point when (unintelligible)that, you should...PRESIDENT:Yeah.(Pause)HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) I think you normally would.Yeah.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.133PRESIDENT:Sure.HALDEMAN:I think if you normally would go, you should.If you normally wouldn't...PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:...you shouldn't. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) you wouldn't have normallygone.PRESIDENT:That's right. Absolutely.HALDEMAN:But if you're on the manifest, you sure as hellshould do it because (unintelligible) gonna have to be taken off.PRESIDENT:Good. HALDEMAN:You have a problem, you can take your time. PRESIDENT:Well, we'll be backHALDEMAN:You'll be back at 8:30. Yeah, yeah.(20 second pause)HALDEMAN:It's a new, uh, new (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Yeah, okay. PRESIDENT:You get that?HALDEMAN:Yeah.(16 second pause)HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) a week, isn't he? On March 20? PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.134HALDEMAN:Okay, so I'll call you back, I'll bet you were.Yeah, you too.(Hangs up telephone)HALDEMAN:He talked (unintelligible) and he says, uh, hesaid he would (unintelligible). He said, "Let me ask you a few questions. Did John Dean know that you&#8482;re putting the statement out?&#64258; and Ehrlichman said, "No, I (Unintelligible)."PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) and then he said, "The way wegot the story is that we were told that in a meeting, you turned to Dean, said, 'Well, John, you live across the river. Why don&#8482;t you throw it in the river on your way home tonight?&#64258; (Unintelligible) the new phraseology, deep six?PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:John says--oh, then Woodward of the Post has thestory that Ehrlichman and Haldeman were told by Dean on March 20th the jig was up and that we all should be prepared to go to jail if necessary and we agreed.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) no, no, I was saying...HALDEMAN:Well, hell, you listened to the notes ofwhat-and Dean did say that stuff--you listened to the notes.PRESIDENT:On the 21st. HALDEMAN:We talked to him on the 21st, 2nd, 3rd(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) at the White House(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Uh, hu, that&#8482;s no, no way. John thinks that'sthe reaction to the Anderson story that Dean...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...that Dean is (unintelligible) out...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.135PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:...in reaction to this.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:Colson put this out. PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:To get Dean (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Yeah, look. That's gonna just crack all overthe place. Now let's go back to the Dean thing, Bob, I, I just--I know that this is, uh, thisis, uh, you know what I mean? The record made,which incidentally, a hell of a lot-of people are bored, you know, uh, but, but, in my view, in my view I am not firm because I am not going to condemn people on the basis of what I consider to be uncorroborated evidence, and onthe basis of what both of you were told that'swhat I'm saying (unintelligible). I'm just not going to do it. They could say, "Look, the White House, they're going to charge.&#64258; That means that every time when somebody comes under fire, he resigns because he no longer can do hisjob. Hell, no. He doesn't resign unless, andI, I, I (unintelligible) unless he, if, if an individual--it's the President's responsibility to see not only that everybody in government, particularly those in the White House, uh, not only do nothing illegal, but that they be the higher standard, the standard of, uh, you know,of, uh, conduct worthy of uh, this, and that's,and that is the test I am going to apply on this matter.HALDEMAN:You've got to consider now, too-- PRESIDENT:In other words, uh, that's what both of youwould want. We do have a higher standard. Wedon't just say, "Well, listen, I, I'm iceskating on a thin edge."HALDEMAN:Uh, I would--I think my lawyers would say I'mmaking a mistake saying that--PRESIDENT:Your lawyers may be wrong.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.136HALDEMAN:My personal view is that I'm better off. I knowI'm better off personally.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:But, I'm, I'm finished personally, uh-- PRESIDENT:Yeah. It's because of these facts against you. HALDEMAN:That's right (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:And you understand, if you're indicted HALDEMAN:If I'm indicted, I will resign. PRESIDENT:...you'll resign, but that doesn't finish younecessarily.HALDEMAN:No. PRESIDENT:Because I didn't... HALDEMAN:No, no. PRESIDENT:Is that the difference? HALDEMAN:Yeah, and I think that we could.PRESIDENT:You see, let me, let me point out the differencebetween the resigning at the request of the President and resigning because you're indicted. If you resign because you're indicted, then it's the judicial process.HALDEMAN:I have no reason for it.PRESIDENT:And then you've got a reason for it.HALDEMAN:And now I don't (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Now, God damn it, you morally, don't think... HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT...that you're guilty.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.137HALDEMAN:I morally don't think I'm guilty and publicly Idon't have a reason. I have allegations thatare not true. There's nothing in the publicallegations that even has a basis of truth to this charge.PRESIDENT:That's right. Right. HALDEMAN:But there may be later, because there are, as weknow, some, some areas of potential jeopardy.PRESIDENT:Yeah, you mean the Segretti crowd?HALDEMAN:Oh, uh, the 350.PRESIDENT:Oh, the 350. Oh, on the legal side. HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:And then, of course, on the moral side, thequestion about whether you knew of the Segretti crap and (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) not clear on that, but I,depends on how that comes out.PRESIDENT:But (unintelligible) what Strachan says and(unintelligible) but anyway, that's gonna come out, but also you're on (unintelligible) let me say, you can fight like hell. I mean, and Ican--Watergate--before that committee you'vegotta fight like hell and you may have to start fighting like hell publicly now, too.HALDEMAN:But in the meantime, I can, I can, instead of PRESIDENT:Worrying about it. HALDEMAN:This really, it really bothers me. I'm sittinghere now worrying about gotta have a White Housestaff meeting, gotta pull people together, gottaget things clean. Now something else is, I can&#8482;t (unintelligible) really don't know.PRESIDENT:No.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.138HALDEMAN:I--PRESIDENT:I can't (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Well.PRESIDENT:But it looks good. HALDEMAN:It of course (unintelligible) position. PRESIDENT:I think John, John's case prompted this thing.This is gonna be-this thing--this, uh, the shit has hit the fan with this one for him. You know what I mean. (Unintelligible) whatever Graysays. If Gray says he didn&#8482;t destroy it, but hedid destroy it, (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) it's, it's so shitty that it's,it's, uh--PRESIDENT:But it looks like Ehrlichman was trying todestroy evidence.HALDEMAN:It hurts us and there is still a view thatyou've raised and several others opposed to what we've accomplished, uh, more than we have really needed. If, if you feel (unintelligible) place, uh, well, we could make it real, I guess, if you bring him in (unintelligible) Ehrlichman will beno problem. (Unintelligible) Cole. Bring a guylike Rush in. You could do it on a temporary basis. In other words, you could detail him from the State Department--a year--to function in this role and, uh, uh, and pending the outcome of the thing whether you have him resign as, as Undersecretary and appoint a newUndersecretary. What seems to me to make aleave, uh (unintelligible) easily you have to, uh, uh, uh, you have to just (unintelligible). I think that's essentially the same problem you have now. That puts Henry in an awkward position, with Rush in particular.PRESIDENT:Yeah.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.139HALDEMAN:But Henry has no problem.PRESIDENT:Rush maybe--Rush can get along.HALDEMAN:That's right.(Pause)HALDEMAN:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:Well, that's another, another thing you can doabout it.PRESIDENT:HALDEMAN:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:...the thing. What you do is-- PRESIDENT:You got another one that I could just put in theoffice, know what I mean. I really need, uh,what I have to say it, you see, you see...HALDEMAN:Uh. PRESIDENT:...you've got to know your way around in here,uh, in the White House. I don't wanna put Ash in. Just--Harlow?HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Terrible.HALDEMAN:He couldn't stand (unintelligible). He couldn'tstand (unintelligible) two days without (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.140PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:If held, uh--PRESIDENT:See, the Rush move, I'm afraid, if you don'tthink he's the proper man, we could put him over there. You might need a permanent man.HALDEMAN:You might want to try him. PRESIDENT:In, in view of the (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:We've got enough good people under me. PRESIDENT:Yeah, and basically I'm never gonna have in thefuture the same relationship I had with you.HALDEMAN:You know that, that's PRESIDENT:That's all changed. Already it's changed. HALDEMAN:Sure. PRESIDENT:I mean that's like we changed with Bull. It waschanged with the others. Now I could sorta doit a lot differently than I've done previously.HALDEMAN:That may not be fact. It's the fact that w4have a lot of criticism for the way we've done it,...PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:...doing it differently, you could get some credit for it.PRESIDENT:Right. I could also say (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:That's not a bad idea. We can say, "Thank Godhe's making his own choice instead of relying on the sons-of-bitches that...PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:...screw everything up."APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.141PRESIDENT:It's just that--this idea just occurred to me atthis moment.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:Kleindienst HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:So somebody is head of this, somebody is head ofthat, so forth and so on. Now, how do youhandle the staff, uh, the, the, uh, Henry says"Did you (unintelligible)" I don't know what he's talking about or (unintelligible) but God damn it you've gotta, gotta start...HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:...he's gotta start cooling it down(unintelligible) you, Dean, so forth and so on.You've gotta work, work it out. Of course, I've got to meet more with Henry, and with Rogers, and (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:You don't realize what you're... PRESIDENT:I know.HALDEMAN:Of course, Henry won't, Henry won't grind anaxe.PRESIDENT:Well, he will... HALDEMAN:He wouldn't feel--Rush won't solve that problem. PRESIDENT:No.(18 second pause)PRESIDENT:I could just say that I'm not going to(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) staff secretary.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.142PRESIDENT:Staff secretary and, uh--HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Well, I'd have to, uh, assume the, uh, personthe others...HALDEMAN:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;but you could make him, uh, sort of atemporary replacement for someone like Huntsman. (Unintelligible) maybe we...PRESIDENT:But that won't work, Bob, for the reason that(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) too tough, but, uh(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:See, bring Rush over basically is an indicationof a permanent replacement rather than (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:That's the problem, that's the problem. PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:Hard on people on a temporary assignment.PRESIDENT:Then what the hell does Rush do? He does,lawyer--I don't know what he does. Somebodyts gotta (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible/REMOVED) we dropped, we dropped(unintelligible) a long time ago(unintelligible/REMOVED) he had nothing to dowith Watergate at all. We could have a hell ofa time if we brought a guy in like Rush and it didn't work out.PRESIDENT:The point is that, uh-- HALDEMAN:It might very well, now, that we--PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:It's hard for you, instead of working with a newperson,...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.143PRESIDENT:I know, I'm a hard man to work for. I'm a hardman (unintelligible), You know what I mean?Trust people.HALDEMAN:Yeah, but you PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:You expect results. One of the problems you'vebeen having, you're not going to get the results that you expect and then you, you just, that's--you gotta face that, you're not gettingthat. (Pause)PRESIDENT:I could rely more on (unintelligible) which I HALDEMAN:Yeah, but you could, you, you, are able to dealwith (unintelligible) well.PRESIDENT:I can say basically on the staff meeting, Ithink there should be staff meetings(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:There's another guy you could bring intemporarily would be accepted and could do it, would be controversial, but it might not be a bad move and you could do it on a temporary basis. See whether it'd work, decide then(unintelligible). Thanks very much.BULL:The Attorney General called (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Yes. HALDEMAN:He called (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Kleindienst, please. Hello. Oh, hello, Dick.How are you? Yeah. Yeah. Right, right. (90 second pause) But he, but he, then, then didnot--you say, did not say that he was ordered todestroy them. Is that, that--(pause) yeah, (30 second pause) Yeah. But it was Dean, too. That's right,that's right, that's right. (Pause) Yeah. Right.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.144PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) you off. Right, right,continuedright. That's-I know (unintelligible) but howdo--we just--look, then you should say nothing.Yeah, yeah, but in terms of the resignation(unintelligible/REMOVED) talked to Dean. Whatabout Dean? He said that Petersen(unintelligible). They're gonna have to, they're gonna have to get Dean. You know what I mean? And, uh, Dean&#8482;s lawyers, uh(unintelligible) can you give him immunity?Dean. Dean? But you won't, will you? Right, that's right. Is there anybody advising him? That's my point. Well, then, then basically all you can talk to Dean about is, not immunity, but you may talk about, uh whether you'll give himthe fairest treatment we can. Isn't that right?There's no way you can give him immunity for example, for perjury, is there? You see now that--no, I--well, that, that's right, that's right. No. Yeah, Yeah. Uh, and, and, that's the point and you also can, can say, uh, uh,he's gonna be (unintelligible) on Pat. What'syour advice? What, what, what, what do you and Henry think? Uh, uh, I'll take care of my problems. Let me tell you--tell Petersen he shouldn't, uh, he shouldn't, uh, I mean, uh, uh, I've got my own. I can handle my own way you know, uh, uh, after all it's a little bitdifferent version from what Petersen told me.Petersen told me that Ehrlichman had ordered uh--that Gray is gonna say that Ehrlichman ordered to destroy the documents. Now that's proved not to be true. Yeah. I want the damn truth. I don't care whether--I don't--I knowPetersen hates Ehrlichman, and that's all right,too, but I, I, I don't want, I don't want, I don't want Petersen to go easy on him. Yeah. Right. Yeah. (Pause) Yeah, obstruction's about, in what way? But not to cover up anything. Oh, I see. I get it. Well, I thinkthat--I don't think that. I like Petersen, Imean myself, you know what I mean. Uh, you trust him, now, don't you? Yeah. All right. Uh, gonna cleanAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.145PRESIDENT:up, but I mean I can't, I, I, I'm talkingcontinuedto him, I&#8482;m talking to him, as if he, he&#8482;s mycounsel now, and I've, uh, I&#8482;ve(unintelligible).Yeah (unintelligible) but my point is-, yeah, my point is to come back to the judgment whether Petersen, whether Petersen, whether he should do it on the basis of, uh, his total legal (unintelligible). This is, this is another, uh, view of the--He thinks his ability to deal withthe charge, but this, he, he, should say exactlywhat happened here, uh, that he would have delivered these files, uh, but, uh, we were told they were not, not in any way related to the Water ate. They were totally political documents. (Pause) That he didn't open it.That's right. Well, it, it, it, that's why thedestruction line won&#8482;t work, you see? Yeah. Why didn't he look into it to see what they were? Oh, boy. No. no he musn't.[Reel 6 begins]PRESIDENT:Let me say--look, Pat must not ever say that(Cont.)publicly. If--let me think--if he says that,that's a conclusion (unintelligible) public-my point is if he says that the White House counsel, of course, Dean, ordered him to destroy, uh, if he, that he, that he drew that conclusion uh, but you understand, that makes him look like a God damn--it looks like--itlooks like there-it not only looks like a fool,it looks like the two of them together were conspiring to destroy evidence.[Reel 5 ends]APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.146PRESIDENT:They, they can't do it, he's got to put it,Pat's got to put it, he's got to be, he's got toput it in terms--(24 second pause) That are,okay. (11 second pause) Now he should not have to do that to, Dean or anybody else (unintelligible). Well he can't get hurt, Ehrlichman didn't say, Ehrlichman was there. Yeah. (pause) Wonderful, loyal fellow and sometimes just rigidly (unintelligible) but,but, but let me say one thing, he's interestedin the President's (unintelligible). But I must spy that the solution would be to testify, that I was ordered to destroy these documents or, and even that I gathered the impression that Mr. Dean wanted me to destroy them, that'spractically the same thing, huh? Ah, well doyour best on it, but you see my point? I mean, ah, you, you tell him, you tell him, "Pat, that just doesn't,-.that just doesn't add up.&#64258; (unintelligible). Well, I cannot, that's, that's what he, that's what he would saytomorrow (unintelligible). Yeah. Well, whatwould he do tomorrow, resign (unintelligible) because of his charge? (pause) Well, under the circumstances (unintelligible), ah, that he, ah, let's just put it this way, let's just put it this way, ah, the matter is very grave ah--would appear before the Grand Jury. The Grand Jurywould indict him. You don't think so? Why not?Yeah, well that's the point. (39 second pause) You mean that ah, as far as, what about the conspiracy to cover up (unintelligible) was just bad judgment. I frankly think myself I'm not, I'm not of the view, just based on the newspaperstories, I'll reconsider. I not only feel thatas far as (unintelligible) has begun, ah, I think frankly we ought to treat him like we're treating the others, now God damnit, the Grand Jury, let's see what the Grand Jury does. But in the end, we're gonna pass and it'd be outanyway, I'm sure. You know what I mean?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.147PRESIDENT(CONTINUED):And ah, ah (I've got to--.I, I may move, I may moveon this thing so (unintelligible). Fair enough? All right. But ah, tell me about ah (unintelligible). Tell him (unintelligible) tomorrow. That's right. Don't do a damn thing which would result in a newspaper story. (Unintelligible). Petersen, I've got a lot of things to do and ah tell, tell Petersen w ' hen you're talking to him that Iappreciate his hard work on this thing.(Unintelligible) counsel because I&#8482;m just (unintelligible) now. And, uh, after all Dean (unintelligible) that's right, Dean, ah the New York Times (unintelligible) reporters. (32 second pause). In other words, then he's gonna look like the-bastard. That's what, that's the way this thing better just better come out. Because it'sthe truth, it's the truth. But what about--he haseverything to do on it. Yeah, yeah. Right. Yeah, yeah. Right. Now, now he's trying to pin everybody else with it, he says that ah, he says that the, yeah. Thank God (unintelligible) has just not been available. You do know, I never saw him personally though, they're resigned about this and then that'll look better because, because ofthe Gray confirmation on February the,22nd. Never.Never. That's right. Or February, now wait a minute, now let me just check the book here. 27th, 27th, 27th of February. That's right. And then-Never, except, except one time to sign my wills. That's right. I, look that's the way we work here, you know, I mean, I told the man in charge that's uh--oh, we have been with them, (unintelligible). Last summer? I never, well youjust listen, let's get one thing straight. I, thePresident, never saw John Dean once except to sign a new will. And that was on August the 14th, that was the first, in signing the, that was the only time I ever saw him. But simply, everything that has been put out by Ziegler, and Dean ought to know, was based on what people told him. There was no Dean written report, but, but my God, Deanorally said that, why do you, why do you think Dean(unintelligible) a will which he can deliberately get out and say (unintelligible)? Cause Dean told him, that. Why would ZieglerAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.148PRESIDENT(CONTINUED):have said that? Did he, did--Right, did he giveyou the impression that he did see me? I'll bedamned. All right, well anyway, uh, I do think that, ah, ah--Well, I think he's gonna stay there until uh, uh they pick, uh, until I, uh, r1l try to pick his successor within a reasonable time. But you know what I mean and you, you do know that. But he shouldn't justresign for this. I, I've really discovered(unintelligible) but I don't think he should put out a story about his version of it. Yeah. He said, now let me see. No, he says no. He said, I'm uh, he said this is a newspaper (unintelligible) on which I'm not gonna commenton a newspaper story (unintelligible). I'veasked, I've asked to testify before the Grand Jury and that's what he should do. Bye (phone slams). It isn't much better. Let's get the God damn facts to the Grand Jury.HALDEMAN:I think you'd better tell Ervin. HenryKissenger's waiting to see you. Will you seehim later? (unintelligible) you can't see him tonight (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:All right, I'll see him but it has to be in themorning ah, see what time.BULL:I'll schedule him 8:30 in the morning sir.Remember you have to meet with (unintelligible)at nine.PRESIDENT:Yeah, 8:30, if, if it isn't urgent. HALDEMAN:That's what he said, he said, uh,(unintelligible) Dean's (unintelligible) so...PRESIDENT:8:30 in the morning's fine, tell him I'll seehim at 8:30 in the morning before I go toFlorida. Well'you tell Ehrlichman it's gotta be,gotta be (unintelligible). Uh, nothing's gonna change, nothing about Gray's gonna change. I just don't think we can have Gray resign. I don't want Gray's statement of resignation to come out tomorrow in direct conflict withEhrlichman. That's what I'm concerned about,that's just, that's just if Gray's successor (unintelligible) 'cause, uh, we can't wait for (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.149HALDEMAN:What is Gray gonna say?PRESIDENT:As of now Bob? He just says, "I'm gonna get outof here before the Grand Jury."UNIDENTIFIED: (Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) what? What he's gonna say tothe Grand Jury now-is that, uh first that, uh, he, uh, came over to Ehrlichman's office and ah, John Dean handed him a pack of quote (unintelligible) "highly sensitive nationalsecurity papers."HALDEMAN:National security? PRESIDENT:National security, highly sensitive. That hadabsolutely nothing to do with the Watergate and they should not see the light of day, they shouldn't be in, uh...HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:...the, uh, FBI files. He took them, he thenwould say that, that ah he gathered that, that, uh (unintelligible) they should be uh, they should be, uh, destroyed. I think that was an interpretation (unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Plus that's innocent.PRESIDENT:That he made the mistake but he says the ideathey souldn't see the light of day, the national security then it should be very well interpreted. Also, he says they don't feel that he's guilty of a crime. (17 second pause). Plus Ervin's, uh, what he said earlier about these,he was there, he heard (unintelligible)obstruction of justice. Then he'll say these papers were delivered early and stated there was never any intention of destroying them and he discussed this, uh, with (unintelligible), uh, he was amazed when he heard they had (pause).HALDEMAN:That's true.(Pause)APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.150UNIDENTIFIED:(Unintelligible/REMOVED) (pause)PRESIDENT:What do his lawyers say about that?HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)UNIDENTIFIED:I suppose they had to say that, that's as far as(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Well HALDEMAN:Be sure to get him thinking on that because whatwe have to do now is call Petersen in. He&#8482;s the one guy whose (unintelligible) advised therewere no papers relating to the Watergate and(unintelligible) can't make a case and say there's been any obstruction (unintelligible)...PRESIDENT:At that point... HALDEMAN:...concerning the case of Gray's defense. PRESIDENT:If it was apparent. He told me he left wiresand other kind of crap, he should haveinvestigated it (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:I think if they're subpoenaed, should he go down(unintelligible) and that I told him to do this.PRESIDENT:(Pause) Well uh, we should, uh, and then weshould know 'cause I, I, I know that, I knowthat, I don't mean now. But, I mean, let megive you the, the argument for resignation (unintelligible) leave for now (unintelligible) Ehrlichman's gonna be on (unintelligible) and, uh, Baker asked (unintelligible). It doesn't make any difference right now. The President feels (unintelligible) without (unintelligible)that&#8482;s why the President rather than the GrandJury signs that. In other words (unintelligible), Grand Jury because the arguments against (unintelligible), orderly way to do it (unintelligible). In my view, whether it should involve the, the leave of absence, itseems to me it can carry from the standpoint offrankly (unintelligible/REMOVED) that way wecould, uh, I think prepare you for(unintelligible) with John.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.151PRESIDENT(CONTINUED):(Unintelligible) you got to be in a position toget out there and wage your damn case. Isuppose how you, how you would, how you would handle that problem but they're, they're being paid, and we (unintelligible) of course (unintelligible) in terms of (unintelligible), several months at least (unintelligible) but they will be (unintelligible). The problem thatyou have, the problem that you have with Dean(unintelligible) now the only thing that I sure as hell am not going to take a leave of you two without being (unintelligible). My point is, this situation is so temporary, you know what I mean, he's either gonna be uh, uh, defendant or(unintelligible) fooling around with thedefendants (inintelligible). For example,RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Yep, he says you may, we may get in a positionto make the rest of us look better, he just, he (unintelligible) some of which he says (unintelligible). Uh, one thing he did say wasthis, he was amazed when I said that, that(unintelligible) together and he said probably you got the impression (unintelligible). "Why hell", he says, "Around here and so forth we have the impression, from talking to John Dean, that you practically was in your office everyuh; sitting in your lap, about uh, every fewdays.&#64258; And I said, It's ah,,HALDEMAN:That's true. (Unintelligible) Dean is the sameway (unintelligible), February 22, then he was in every day, approached me every day for a couple of weeks.PRESIDENT:He was down every day.HALDEMAN:And he hasn't been in since.PRESIDENT:Except after the, he was down every day &#8218;tilMarch.HALDEMAN:It wasn't quite every day, he's been gone forquite a number of days.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.152PRESIDENT:Yeah, every day until March, uh, 25, I think.If I'm, uh, rightHALDEMAN:Yeah but, uh--PRESIDENT:I was gone part of that time. HALDEMAN:He was in the 27th and the 28th, you saw him the1st, then he wasn't in the 2nd, he wasn't in the 3rd, he was1t in the 4th, he wasn't in the 5th, he was in for ten minutes on the 6th, 25 minutes on the 17th, again not very much there in earlyMarch. Not at all on the 8th, not at all on the9th, not at all on the 10th, not at all on the llth, not at all on the 12th, not at all on the 13th, then he started on the 14th. That's when he really started, March 14th, and that was when you had Dean and Moore, then he started thatcycle. You met with them on the 14th, you metwith them on the 15th, you met with Dean alone on the 16th. Dean alone on the 17th. Nothing on the 18th. Oh yeah, Dean and Moore on the 19th. Dean and Moore on the 20th. Dean and me part time on the 21st and with Mitchell on the22nd, and that was it, you never met with himagain except at Camp David. Let's see now it all adds up to a total, the total time over the period from the Watergate to now has been ten months, for approximately 12 hours. (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Oh. Sure.HALDEMAN:And virtually, and, and virtually all of that,well, all of it was in the period of one month and virtually all of it in the period of, uh, a week or ten days. (pause) From the time of the Watergate to February 10...PRESIDENT:I can't figure out how Ehrlichman can(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:John (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Well, these people are good.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.153HALDEMAN:Some.PRESIDENT:Do you think-(unintelligible)?HALDEMAN:I sure was, I sure was. I thought Dean wasdoing one hell of a job. (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Yeah, right. HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) will say. And I think he was. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:Because I think I was right, I think whathappened is he cracked, that he had Dean swinghis own--It kept getting tighter and tighter andthen something happened, then he put himself in the hands of the lawyers, and that's when he...PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:I don't think he probably had it on with thelawyers and I don't think that, uh, well, Ithink he got himself into the soup withoutrealizing it, and I don't think he really, really realized it until he got there at Camp David and started laying it out.PRESIDENT:Well, do you think. You realize that(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:I think he began (unintelligible) the legalproblems, I think he thought everybody had problems, they weren't really all that serious, they were, they were--PRESIDENT:Cancer at the heart of the Presidency. HALDEMAN:Well, yeah. But that was when he thought itwould be cut out. And at that point he was so(unintelligible) days later thinking Mitchellwould just step out and take the blame for this. He weighed his (unintelligible) with the Watergate not the cover-up.PRESIDENT:Yeah, on that point--APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.154HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:From the first conversation it was covered up.HALDEMAN:He was starting to worry about the cover but hedidn't--he was still--PRESIDENT:Hunt, remember, talking about lawyers. HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) from that first conversation. HALDEMAN:He thought Hunt would blow on the Watergate andon that Ehrlichman stuff.PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:Not on the, not on the cover-up. He wasn'tworrying about the cover-up as a legal problem (unintelligible). He was only worried about the problem that he was in it. He wasn't able to handle the cover-up and it was a lot later thathe realized that the cover-up, for him, was alegal problem, a critical problem (pause). The time he talked to you, the cover-up was a practical problem.PRESIDENT:And how do you deal with it?HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible/REMOVED) problems a littleearlier.PRESIDENT:The fact that-- HALDEMAN:I don't know that. Well, yeah, apparently,looking back now, he did regard the discussion--PRESIDENT:In other words, uh Liddy's and Hunt's attorneys'fees (unintelligible) would blow this thing inside of the White House, that in effect wasthe conversation.HALDEMAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) was about.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.155HALDEMAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Not blow the White House.HALDEMAN:No sir. Not blow the Watergate and not blow thecover-up.PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:Hunt blew it when he was saying (unintelligible)the fact he was which was clearly known (unintelligible) (pause) at that point you didn't know he was paying off your people, nordid I.PRESIDENT:You, you've hit upon a very important pointthere, that, that in terms of the conversation we had with him, had nothing to do with Hunt blowing on the Watergate.HALDEMAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:On the-cover-up of the Watergate.HALDEMAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:'Cause Hunt was gonna blow on the nationalsecurity matters.HALDEMAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:And, therefore, I was deeply concerned.HALDEMAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:And that's what got us into the whole thing. HALDEMAN:And in, inad-, inadvertently also, going in anddiscovering all that was happening on-Watergate (12 sec. pause) which he still doesn't know what was happening.PRESIDENT:You think they'll call Pappas (unintelligible)?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.156HALDEMAN:(Unintellkgible). I don't think he's gonna doall this stuff. I think he's gonna strike atus, he keeps lobbing these things out(unintelligible). I think he's got a whole bag of goodies probably (unintelligible). Everything he just said is a problem.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) obstruction of justice. HALDEMAN:No, I think he'll start getting Colson andEhrlichman.PRESIDENT:Why not (unintelligible)?HALDEMAN:May, maybe Ehrlichman. I don't think he will. Ijust don't think he will. That's you know, I don't think the guy is, is a--PRESIDENT:Lawyers. HALDEMAN:Ben--, Benedict Arnold (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:His lawyers might want him to (unintelligible)the President (unintelligible)President (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:But, what I mean, threatening to set out to do(unintelligible) appeals court (unintelligible). He's lost his mind completely (unintelligible)regardless of the fact of the cover-up(unintelligible). Totally different kind of job. (Unintelligible) socially a couple years ago in case he will (18 second pause) I don't think, I really don't think--I can't help but worry about that but I don't think--PRESIDENT:Well--HALDEMAN:This is real and--PRESIDENT:Understand, understand that if, ah, they pullthat on, ah, Henry Petersen (unintelligible) that Haldeman was there. All right, if, uh, Haldeman was there, you take my word for it (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.157HALDEMAN:Have you told him.PRESIDENT:No.HALDEMAN:Well I wouldn't, I wouldn't anticipate that(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:I haven't told ya this. I have told Petersen sothat he's on notice, that, that there was a discussion of this problem that(unintelligible/REMOVED). That's what triggeredmy mind and I also said that's when he maybebecame aware of the President's (unintelligible)that triggered (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:I think you're on--that's right. PRESIDENT:Then I would say, I would say that uh(unintelligible). Pappas, I assure you, what the hell, I didn't know anything about that Iwas here (unintelligible) and I had to go for a(unintelligible) eventually (unintelligible) I determined (unintelligible). I think that's, that's when this started.(Unintelligible/REMOVED)HALDEMAN:I found out that I can't, in listening to that,I can't imagine that he would get caught, hewould have to have been disciplined first that's--PRESIDENT:You got to remember HALDEMAN:I'm sitting there playing this thing back andforth on the tape to pick up every little scratch. He's sitting there in the meeting,he's had, had it for a different purpose in youroffice (pause).PRESIDENT:But when I called him he said (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:That's right. And Dean going out there, puttingit out to the press is a mark of a real shit.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.158HALDEMAN:Not very nice thing to do. He was totallyirresponsible to put out the fact that he did.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) Anyway, it's done, it's done,and that isn't the real problem here, we got to get back to that.HALDEMAN:Oh no, I agree. PRESIDENT:The whole fact that he called. HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:Well he wasHALDEMAN:Compromise, no question on that it was inPRESIDENT:But, uh, incidentally, the Gray decision wasright. I (unintelligible) basis of (unintelligible) I don't know whether it was (unintelligible) (noise) did he leave?HALDEMAN:I don't know, maybe (unintelligible) find out(noise) uh (unintelligible) is, is he gonna(unintelligible) went home. Okay. I may call him back. Goodbye, (hangs up phone) (unintelligible) us over for dinner.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) hard to go out (unintelligible)it's a hard ball (unintelligible) on this thatOne, but by God we did, Bob.HALDEMAN:We got to do it. PRKSIDENT:The mark of, what do you call it, the real markof strength, you know, we may be torn up inside, we got to walk right out there and let people see it.HALDEMAN:Right. (Unintelligible) especially you.PRESIDENT:Huh.HALDEMAN:Especially you.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.159PRESIDENT:Yeah, all of us.HALDEMAN:(15 second pause) (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Huh, the only thing that, I mean, we, I don'twant to beat your head to death on it, uh (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Go ahead. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:Go ahead, I'll have a coke or something. UNIDENTIFIED:(Unintelligible)(Unknown person leaves room; Sanchez entersroom; voices in background)SANCHEZ:Yes, sir. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) what you want. SANCHEZ:Sir? PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)SANCHEZ:Yes, sir.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) SANCHEZ:Yes, sir. HALDEMAN:Got any gingerale? SANCHEZ:Yes, sir. HALDEMAN:Do you?PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:If not, I'll have a coke. SANCHEZ:Yes sir.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.160HALDEMAN:Either one.SANCHEZ:All right.HALDEMAN:(Pause) (Picks up phone) (Unintelligible) theproblem is that--Yeah. Okay (Hangs up phone).UNIDENTIFIED:Well (unintelligible) I suppose we'll get some,new evil sign, what about Watergate.PRESIDENT:We had a couple of authorities on(unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Is the President moral is the questioniPRESIDENT:Haldeman, Haldeman, Mitchell question mark andNixon question mark. This is purely the, uh, political (unintelligible) is a little kid's style (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Now the signs here-- PRESIDENT:Part of it--HALDEMAN:As we well know.PRESIDENT:Signs, signs of time. (Unintelligible)relation, but, on the leave thing, Bob, when you come down to it, I've argued this, I've, I've sweated over it before (unintelligible) we stand firm (unintelligible) or (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:What it really comes down to is resignation.PRESIDENT:For everybody. HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) official. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:Well, yeah, but not when you go back.Ehrlichman has as much of a problem (unintelligible). I would back off ofresignation (unintelligible)APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.161HALDEMAN:instead, you know, on the basis of what he had(Continued)talked about with Klein, he thought that was theright idea but he said (unintelligible) otherramifications. He wasn't so sure it was. Connally backed off, Rogers backed off.PRESIDENT:But on the other hand-- HALDEMAN:Parts of that, is they talked you into it. PRESIDENT:Parts-- HALDEMAN:It's hard to say it to you. If they talk tome--PRESIDENT:But part of that... HALDEMAN:We can sit down- PRESIDENT:...part of the, but part of the combo(unintelligible) Rogers and Connally, I think both now would would, would perhaps lean toleave...HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:They didn't, they don't back off of that toofar--HALDEMAN:I mean Connally says, and I feel he was myrespected (unintelligible) tries to(unintelligible) Rogers tried to the point.PRESIDENT:I know. We're going ahead and get to theproblem.HALDEMAN:But Connally says, "If you can make it, thestrongest position for you and the strongest position for the President is for you to stay there. But it's also the highest risk." And hesaid, and "The risk is, is really, youknow--Because if you stay there and you get clobbered then you, you got one hell of a problem, that's, that's the thing to do is, is to take leave and that greatly reduces the risk, if not almost all of it.&#64258; So they send(unintelligible) it greatly increases yourvulnerability, but, doesn't...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.162PRESIDENT:Doesn't kill you.HALDEMAN:...doesn't kill you. But if resignation is thesafest...PRESIDENT:For the Presidency... HALDEMAN:...it is the most dangerous from your viewpointand it's the, it doesn't add very much to what the leave provides.PRESIDENT:Because you've got that option... HALDEMAN:From the Presidency but it takes away a lot fromyou. And it also takes something away from thePresidency because you (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:That's right and it eliminates the, anypossibility of a option down the road (noise) which really can't discuss (noise) if(unintelligible) the first.PRESIDENT:You see the argument, the argument against theleave, of course, is that well you, you can'targue (unintelligible/REMOVED) just postpone itand see what happens.HALDEMAN:That's right. If it is inevitable.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:And he's right if it's inevitable. Maybe we gotto say that it is inevitable. Uh--PRESIDENT:But if we say it's inevitable HALDEMAN:If you say it's inevitable you&#8482;re sayingsomething that you shouldn't say.PRESIDENT:...if we say it's inevitable though(unintelligible) any other time.HALDEMAN:Except for the problem that poses on thedefense.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.163PRESIDENT:That's what I'm saying.HALDEMAN:And those are your problems as well as ours.PRESIDENT:Yeah, because, because I don't want our peopleconvicted, now do your lawyers believe that resignation would hurt them in your case?HALDEMAN:Little hard to say. PRESIDENT:How about a leave? HALDEMAN:Resignation would hurt Ehrlichman too, but notas much.PRESIDENT:Not as much.HALDEMAN:They, in their interests, of course, uh, felt itisn't really, they're pretty, uh, they are so devoted, you, know, the fact (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:The point is, Bob, look we got to do, and, Ifeel right now as you know (unintelligible) dosomething, do something (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Well, Yeah, but, you but this is, there is verygreat merit to the argument that--PRESIDENT:Yeah. At this point though you got to stay oneahead, step ahead of the herd. I feel if we did the right thing (unintelligible) that(unintelligible) know all about but that was ahHALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) yeah. PRESIDENT:Right. (Unintelligible) his option. I didn'tdo it and so now they say what do you do now, I think that was right, I think that bought us some time. I think the President looked very good at this last meeting, uh--HALDEMAN:Yeah, but they're still, they're turning on thePresident now, the editorial stuff and all of this...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.164PRESIDENT:On the grounds that-HALDEMAN:...and the resignations will not, and theresignations will make that worse, not better.PRESIDENT:They're pressing on it because (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:No, on the grounds that he is responsible. PRESIDENT:That's right. Well, isn't that identical towhat I just--HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) they're now saying, firingHaldeman just won't do any good. Because that'sjust imminent, the story is gonna be thatHaldeman's gonna resign...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...all over-- PRESIDENT:But then what do they want (unintelligible)? HALDEMAN:That we--PRESIDENT:To block, uh, to, uh, to resign, too.HALDEMAN:No, no, there's no call for that and no call forimpeachment, in any serious degree (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Has he?HALDEMAN:I think so, somebody (unintelligible/REMOVED)the, they're the (unintelligible) to starting tomove to the President, that the President can't assign the blame for this to anybody else. The President must take the blame, must then clean the thing up and let's see what happens.PRESIDENT:All right, that's what I had (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:That's beyond simply saying, and it has nothingto do really with the legalities of the matterand what they're, they're arguing the other side is, that what the President may do, is do what Truman did...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.165PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:...which is do not take any action and just letthe Grand Jury decide who the criminals in thestaff were. And once they decide that, uh, uh fire &#8218;em and then never say anything about it. Now, they're arguing? that, uh, the fault there is not that he failed to clean out the staff but that he failed to...PRESIDENT:Say something.HALDEMAN:...to say something, uh, and...PRESIDENT:Well, I think I should say something. HALDEMAN:...I think you're to the, yeah, I think you'reyou you got to say, you've got to say something to the extent that this is a lousy, cruddy mess and, and (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Yeah, I might, if it seems fitting, I might sayit to the Chamber of Commerce (pause) that, I mean I can't go up there (unintelligible) about Watergate. I know you're all concerned with it (unintelligible) then the problem I have (unintelligible) that I not pass theresponsibility to the (unintelligible). Here'sthe way I feel. I feel that about the, about the leave, I'm thinking, Bob, of another point that I just don't-I know this much, I don't give a shit what the Democrats think, I only care one hell of a lot about having the Republicans come down here with their resolutions if they would(unintelligible). I just, I, I, I know you--HALDEMAN:Republican resolution demanding Haldeman'sresignation.PRESIDENT:Haldeman said, now on the basis of this theyprobably are demanding it.HALDEMAN:How do they know that?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.166PRESIDENT:They don't know? Oh it will be in the papers inthe morning.HALDEMAN:No need for that.PRESIDENT:I think Ehrlichman's comment (unintelligible)because Gray (unintelligible). But you see, I'd like to beat (unintelligible) to the punch. What I'd like to do...HALDEMAN:The one problem we got with that is, is is nowthey say that if the President will justremember a couple of weeks ago...PRESIDENT:Two weeks ago. HALDEMAN:...Rockefeller (unintelligible) George Bush(unintelligible) Vice President. If the President will just say, he will cooperate with the investigation then we have no problem. Sothey said he'll cooperate with theinvestigation. Then they said, "Well that isn't enough the President's gotta hit harder.&#64258; So last week we hit harder--PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) his ass (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:You could fire &#8218;em, you could fire Haldeman. Soyou fire Haldeman and you think they're gonnasay, "Well that takes care of the Watergate case, now let's go on with the nation's business.&#64258; Hell no. They're gonna say now you got to fire everybody else, you got to fire Haldeman, (unintelligible). You gotta fire Pat Gray over there. That's gonna be(unintelligible). You gotta get rid of theAttorney General because that probably, they'll turn on Petersen at some point. There will be all (unintelligible) and Petersen and (unintelligible) then they'll just keep boring in because their target is not (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.167PRESIDENT:Oh sure, Bob, I know that. I know that but, butwe've been even facing that. That doesn't meanthat at this point that, ah, that you just sitthere like a sitting duck, you know what I mean. Let's take a look, let's fact it,RESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;HALDEMAN:We had to do something.PRESIDENT:But we had to do something, you know. HALDEMAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:And we kept one jump ahead of the RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;sheriff. Now in this case,that's what we're doing. I know who the targetis, Bob. I know this isn't gonna satisfy them. I know they hate my guts and they're alwaysgonna hate my guts. When I say they--However, Ithink with you, I think, I think, I think the congressional guys, for example...HALDEMAN:They, they would be (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:...the Republicans... HALDEMAN:They would be satisfied. PRESIDENT:...I think the Republicans--yes. I thinkPetersen--HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) Thank God, he did something. HALDEMAN:If you get Ehrlichman out too. Well, just, justthink you did something, there are, there are a lot of them that would be delighted to see...PRESIDENT:Like they were with Sherman Adams.HALDEMAN:...really who want to see John bombed and Deanput both of us...PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah, yeah.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.168HALDEMAN:They really would.PRESIDENT:'Cause, basically it's part of the problem ofbeing on the White House staff. They hatedAdams. And, I say that, but they don't all really, but ah--HALDEMAN:No they don't. I've got lot of(unintelligible). You'll find a lot of good supporters (unintelligible) 'not bring, not enough to carry, carry the thing and you'll geta lot of criticism from, from our loyalists,that's the other thing. Our super-loyalists will be offended by. (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:That's where the leave is better thanresignation.HALDEMAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:The leave--HALDEMAN:And it isn't fair, it's-- PRESIDENT:Well that's Bill Rogers' point. HALDEMAN:Fairness is a factor in it. PRESIDENT:Well I'll tell you, let me put it this way, ah(unintelligible) say Petersen made ah, ah good,ah point that might ah be (unintelligible).Ehrlichman brought up a point. He said, "I should never hate said it.&#64258; (Unintelligible) they should resign. (Unintelligible) they should resign on the basis (unintelligible) and I indicated that (unintelligible) it's not fair (unintelligible), they have a right to be. Hesaid, "Mr. President, that speaks awfully wellfor your (unintelligible), but it doesn't speak for your (unintelligible)."HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)(REEL 7 BEGINS)PRESIDENT:I don't know what would be better but the pointis, my nature is not to be a viciousAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.169PRESIDENT(CONTINUED):son-of-a-bitch. That's just (unintelligible).(REEL 6 ENDS)APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.170PRESIDENT:And even with Hickle, God damn it. Destroying(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:I know.PRESIDENT:It was a tough thing for me to do. I don't liketo hurt people and I don't like to do it. You know what I mean? And, basically, I'm a stand up guy. Stand up for my friends. I might (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Sir.PRESIDENT:I told people that they lose ball games. Yaknow. I call them when they're down. I stand with them when they're sick. I mean this is another characterHALDEMAN:But... PRESIDENT:...of the President.HALDEMAN:...but, the argument the other way i-is whether(unintelligible). That's a very admirable human trait, and it's an admirable Presidential trait--until it gets in the way, of the proper running...PRESIDENT:...of the office...HALDEMAN:...of the office...PRESIDENT:Here, Bob... HALDEMAN:...that is you cannot (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Here, Bob, is the critical point with you and Iand John Ehrlichman are concerned. It has no concern. It is gonna get worse. It is gonna be worse. And it's in the way (unintelligible) andah, John can't do his job. You can't do yourjob and ah, guess becauseAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.171PRESIDENT:(unintelligible) you're really (unintelligible).(Cont&#8482;d)maybe it'll do the job. And also, I thinkanother thing about this you have read SixCrises, that statement in Six Crises--nothingabout-the chapters, but the intro tion, which Itook almost a month to write. But in the introduction basically on the old pro-proposition of crises book then I -I (unintelligible). But you have the problem of(unintelligible), ah, the point is the question,the worst time, the very worst time is to try and make the goddamned decision. once you've decided, then you feel fine. Then you'll have a period afterwards when you're you will not (unintelligible). Buy my point is we're in aposition now, where we should decide and then goon. You see my point?HALDEMAN:Yeah. If you can do it. PRESIDENT:Well, you can can't do it. HALDEMAN:That'll only you gotta be sure that once youdecide)that would enable me to move on in orderto speed up the (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:You see. The resignation thing, the resignationthing, frankly, let me tell ya, the reason I buckled it, right--HALDEMAN:I didn't want it, ya know. PRESIDENT:God damn it. I'm not gonna do something I thinkis wrong. The hell with (unintelligible). I canrun the Presidency one way or another. Right?It's wrong.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Yeah, but, but then the second point is,(unintelligible). The President's gotta take a vote of right or wrong with his people.HALDEMAN:Yeah.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.172PRESIDENT:That's the normal factor. Unless it impairs theoperation of the President. Now we get to thepoint (unintelligible) postpone where in thebeginning where it does impair. In other words, although it impairs your operation, it impairs John's operation and I've got this goddamned Congress to deal with. I've got a hell of a lot of battles to fight. And I've got to clear the goddamned air. How do you do it? Do you clearthe air th-the (unintelligible) but at least youget a couple of targets who move from one place to another. It's true that they'll target in more on me. But, then I'll assume the responsibility and I will, I want to say, I am responsible. I regret and I, uh, I do not passthe buck to anybody else, (unintelligible) withMitchell. I don't wanna make a Checkers Speech for the sake of the press (unintelligible). Well...HALDEMAN:I think I like your idea of doing it in theChambers group. It may be a good speech to giveto a live audience.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) this to the press... PRESIDENT:Maybe it's changed... HALDEMAN:...even with a live audience (unintelligible), PRESIDENT:...Or do you think, it should be a prime time(unintelligible) reach that point now thatyou've (unintelligible) the God damn story now.HALDEMAN:Can you do it at the Chambers (unintelligible)? PRESIDENT:Huh? HALDEMAN:It maybe, shouldn't be a live audience. Maybeyou as President and you have a problem in the Presidency dealing with the American people assuch, that you'd ask the President, wh-what heshould state carefully.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.173PRESIDENT:And frankly (unintelligible). Except the factof, uh, (noise) (unintelligible) I thinkprobably the only hope (unintelligible)(noise).HALDEMAN:Yeah. (Unintelligible). Well, let's say if youdo it, you're not very far ahead of the wave. You may be ahead of it a little, and...PRESIDENT:I don't have... HALDEMAN:...very far ahead, and I think maybe you wannabe a little bit ahead.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:So, it's gotta override the press. PRESIDENT:Yeah. And on that, the only problem with doingthe prime timer, right now, I think the time to do the prime timer is when the Grand Jury acts.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:You see... HALDEMAN:I, I all right (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah. HALDEMAN:Where...PRESIDENT:Yeah. An-,and otherwise, otherwise other thingsare gonna come out separately. Now, the Grand Jury's acted and I'm gonna rely on the highest standards of conduct, and everybody here, as far as the people are concerned, even though they weren't indicted. I feel it best that they not be here, or they feel that they cannot serve.You know what I mean. We gotta go through allthat, uh, the higher standards. You're gonna get at the bottom of this. You're gonna cooperate with the Ervin Committee. Let's get some new rules and so forth and so on. The mostAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.174PRESIDENT:important thing is to preserve what we have.(Cont'd)That there's no whitewash in the White House.Ah, make that speech and say, I assumed theresponsibility and, I mean, I want you to know why it all happened. I want to tell you the story without any of the polish. Just being President was not at all an issue. And ah, ah, now ah, I have no other responsibilities to the founders of my country, except to be President,and I'm going to certainly devote(unintelligible) of this country(unintelligible/REMOVED). Just can't have this,this violent take-over. Violent, violenttake-over (unintelligible) so forth and so on, but you see, beside this and the other, theywant an (unintelligible) speech. There's noexcuse for the fact the other (unintelligible) clearly.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) I'm not making it just for thefact that there are eight, there were 36incidents of this, or 14 incidents of that.There were 15 incidents of that (unintelligible). A lot of this (unintelligible) think of it this has happened, but this is no excuse for violence. We are responsible for what people feel (unintelligible) uh, but uh, I think Yeah. Nowwe're gonna go forward, we've got great thingsto do for this country. I'm confident that put it in circles I didn't do it, I didn't handle it (unintelligible), I was just God damn busy. Actually, I really had an excuse.HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Ah, not a justification, but I got an excuse.PRESIDENT:What, that I was busy? HALDEMAN:Oh, sure. That the President, you know, takeother than the few that are starting to (unintelligible) on the President to take theAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.175HALDEMAN:responsibility, but even there, the thing is,(Cont'd)his responsibility is that he wasn't on top ofit, and that the peoplePRESIDENT:Where's the, what's the Agronsky line aboutimpeaching the President. Impeached for what? Ah, cover-up or what.HALDEMAN:Don't know. PRESIDENT:Bull shit. Let me say that ah, that wasEhrlichman's point, he said, and that would beJohn Dean's point. But do you think the peopleof the United, ah, the United States are gonna impeach the President on the basis of John Dean? (Unintelligible), I mean, I know -I'm not speaking of impeachment in terms of a trial or something like that, but I've been thinking ofimpeachment in terms of being the public mind.I mean, John Dean's zingers just burn (unintelligible) Dean's been totally discredited by it right now. We may be wrong.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) basically right. That's one ofthe-problems of me being here (unintelligible),PRESIDENT:I know, and you and John must not be concernedif they have gotten Dean out of the way, we could say thanks.HALDEMAN:Well, that is our concern. But if, ah-- PRESIDENT:I know, but, concern is-- HALDEMAN:Concern is (unintelligible) perspective. PRESIDENT:The point is, we know he's gonna be handleddifferently, don't we Bob? We know he's gonna(unintelligible) and the President isn't judging, on this is the thing. I knew for so God damn long that there was prosecutor (unintelligible).APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.176HALDEMAN:I'm kinda thinking now, that if we go this routePRESIDENT:It ought to be done soon.HALDEMAN:Now that maybe, you ought to give Ehrlichman andme a chance to go out first.PRESIDENT:...and keep Dean? HALDEMAN:Throw him out. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible), HALDEMAN:And let us at least get some credit for takingthe initiative and you--PRESIDENT:I, I, I think there's a good-HALDEMAN:...we'd be a lot better off if we-- PRESIDENT:That's right, that's right, and may--(Unintelligible). And now, what I'm thinking may happen is thebest (unintelligible). Maybe Dean will come inand ah, maybeHALDEMAN:Besides, then I think we oughta wait a few daysand then go out at different times then. I think, I think if we can, I don't think we want the one story thatPRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah, Ehrlichman, Haldeman and Dean.HALDEMAN:If we survive it.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:I think we need a separate story. I think theway we can do it, since you can't treat us differently, okay.PRESIDENT:Bob (unintelligible) shit.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.177HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) You should fire him and takeleaves from us.PRESIDENT:Ehrlichman?HALDEMAN:Ehrlichman. But that creates a differentproblem for you, so that you can't deal with. It could be explained later. Can't be explained now. But we could move out front just by you not telling anybody, including Dean and or anybody elsePRESIDENT:All right, so (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:...and then Dean will have to decide what to do,or what his next tactic is. And (unintelligible) with Dean, I wouldn't ask for--PRESIDENT:Oh no. (Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:I would wait a few days.PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:And then maybe have somebody tell Dean, say"Look, John, in view of the way you been behaving, you gotta (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:The U.S. Attorney will handle him. I, and Ithink, I really think if you would write yourleave letters and what I'd like to do, Bob, Icould give a crack over the weekend. I have some commitments (12 secondunintelligible/REMOVED) it. Now you've got avery good point. And let's, God damn it, letDean sweat, then he'll say, "Well, I got Haldeman and Ehrlichman". That's all right,too. Then he will have accomplished one of hisgoals. Then we'll see who the hell else he's after. See what I mean? Well, I don't know if John will buy this, but I'll...Well John...UNIDENTIFIED:Yes sir, excuse me... PRESIDENT:Look, let me tell you something. You say thisstory, this FBI thing, for a lawyer like John,who is such a God damn respected, honest, decent, youAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.178PRESIDENT:know, and regardless of (unintelligible) this(Cont&#8482;d)is a hell of a blow for him, see what I mean?That, that, he is innocent. You and I know whatthe Christ he meant that uh, tell that God damn Gray, for Christ's sake, take this stuff, look at it, keep it, but it ain't about the Watergate, this is just a bunch of shit that, that this ass hole Hunt had. Right? That's what he meant. Correct? Well, Bob, is he gonna readthat, it's gonna be a rough son-of-a-bitch,John, and, ah, just say well, he, he can't get out based on that story, let me tell you, I don't want to have the Congress hassle John. I don't want to (unintelligible) I just feel (unintelligible). Look, I can stand up against&#8218;em and I have (unintelligible) but, but, butapparently John, you know, we've got one of these curious situation (unintelligible) and God damn it, we've got, we've got hard liners(unintelligible/REMOVED) hard liners they're acruel bunch of bastards. (Unintelligible) Isometimes think I'm the only one(unintelligible) presentations come in (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Maybe not PRESIDENT:Maybe I should, maybe I should, can get intothat job, maybe, like, like I said, I really think, I, I, I really thought at times(unintelligible), but I couldn&#8482;t do it for him.HALDEMAN:Couldn't do it for Connally either. PRESIDENT:No. Guess not.(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Well, basically you know, without HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) live with it.PRESIDENT:Well, I've got to live with it and also let'sface it, I can do this job better than anybody else.HALDEMAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:And at this point in the day.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.179HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) all the problems.PRESIDENT:And we'll survive the problems. This does notkill the Presidency.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:It is tough, it is tough, or, or do you agreewith that? (More than one person talks, all unintelligible),PRESIDENT:Malarkey. As you know, so many people think,Burns thinks we're finished (unintelligible).You don't think we're finished?HALDEMAN:No. (Unintelligible) I don't mean to say itsnot a...PRESIDENT:Our problem. HALDEMAN:...our problem, but it is... PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:It's not, uh, it's not a (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:I know John won't buy it, but Bob, he's got to.You talk to him.(Unintelligible) Dean floatingout around there (unintelligible/REMOVED) now,John after this story broke, you remember, hewanted to take leave, right, he wanted to quittoday.HALDEMAN:Yeah, that's interesting. PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Right. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible), HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible/REMOVED). Damn thing to do. Iwould do it before, I&#8482;d do it Saturday, so itgets done.HALDEMAN:Okay.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.180PRESIDENT:And incidentally, when the, I think when thespeech is made though, do you think it should bein the oval office?HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:All right, good. HALDEMAN:I haven't really thought about it much, but, offthe cuff, ahPRESIDENT:On the other hand, when I do the Chamber(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Well, I kept it open, but I just wonder if Ishould do the Chamber?HALDEMAN:(Noise) (Unintelligible), PRESIDENT:This (unintelligible) of the Chambers Mondaythat I got the other fellow with Tuesday, onthis (unintelligible) Chambers Office(unintelligible) and I just wonder if I should brush over the Chambers (unintelligible) I got the ah, I got this big thing on the (unintelligible) next day over at the ah, Public Affairs Chamber, sure. I don't think I could,see I really can't do the Chamber without sayingsomething about this.HALDEMAN:Why not? PRESIDENT:I could. HALDEMAN:I think you have to. If you do it, you have todo it without saying anything. 'Cause when you say anything you've got to say everything.PRESIDENT:That's right. Good.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:I'm doing this Stennis thing. That's no skinoff my (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:That's right.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.181PRESIDENT:The Chambers a different thing in this town withall the reporters and all the rest.HALDEMAN:The whole focus will be on Watergate.PRESIDENT:Yeah. They'll say why didn't, he didn't mentionWatergate. Somebody said why didn't you talk about Watergate? I really don't think I should do it. The (unintelligible) bunch is pushing for it.HALDEMAN:Well, but you know the Chamber, uh, thingdoesn't change anything.PRESIDENT:I don't think it does either HALDEMAN:I said PRESIDENT:...two labor groups and why don't I do theChamber thing. Well, I'm busy.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). (Noise).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible/REMOVED). You know I've got tore-, got to reverse myself a little on Agnew(unintelligible/REMOVED). I liked his standingup with us (unintelligible/REMOVED).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible/REMOVED) exactly the reasonDavid Brinkley said last night which is that hecan't separate himself from you and still get the nomination.PRESIDENT:And that's why probably Connally(unintelligible/REMOVED). No.HALDEMAN:No. Connally (unintelligible/REMOVED).PRESIDENT:Connally is a decent, decent man, no, youlreright. Well, I, I, I, I, I have had some conversation with Connally and Connally just thinks, by God, that I ought to be doing the job (unintelligible) just feel damn sorry about--he likes you (unintelligible) particularlyAPRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.182PRESIDENT:doing a good job. And why that worked out that(Cont&#8482;d)way (unintelligible/REMOVED).HALDEMAN:That doesn't worry me a bit (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:'Cause in the end it's going to be(unintelligible). You know what I mean. We've got to get out the God damn story. People have forgotten the violent years involved. They have forgotten...HALDEMAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:I mean, "Fuck you Mr. President&#64258;, &#64257;Fuck youTricia", and all that shit, not just words but what violence, the destruction, the tear-gassing at the convention. What the...HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible), PRESIDENT:In the name of God?HALDEMAN:Enough people out in front of this place overthe years.PRESIDENT:Well, I know, rough, the threats... HALDEMAN:Oh.PRESIDENT:Get together and--RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;can do one thing--I want the threats collected,remember. I told you that, will they do it?HALDEMAN:Yeah, yeah, yeah. PRESIDENT:Okay (unintelligible) if you completely agreewith them (unintelligible). I mean, we don'thave any investigators, that's our problem, see.HALDEMAN:Yeah, yeah. PRESIDENT:See, see. HALDEMAN:They would be good investigators.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.183PRESIDENT:Huh?HALDEMAN:They would be good investigators(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) you know what I mean? I reallythink-that, (noise) you know, I really think (noise) that the number of threats, the number of uh, the number of demonstrations, uh, get all the hate letters that you can, good God, let's put out the Chamber of Horrors.HALDEMAN:There's plenty of it.PRESIDENT:Huh? HALDEMAN:There's plenty of it. (Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:There is, but I, they've got the laws on it. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:There's a list, a summary, a catalogue which hemanages to keep vitriol wrapped around it.PRESIDENT:Maybe you ought to let (unintelligible) do it.Okay. Alright, thank you. 'Preciate it. I don't know, what do you want to do about the(unintelligible). You see how I feel, but yougotta do it.HALDEMAN:I'll put John and I'll... PRESIDENT:The departments, the departments that I... Letme put it this way...APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.184(Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:I would, uh, (noise) talk with Rogers(unintelligible) Executive Privilege(unintelligible) still, you remember that I had (unintelligible). I want you to know that it occurred to me that uh, (unintelligible). I checked with Krogh, you know, and I said Italked RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;You get what Imean.HALDEMAN:Wouldn't that be a cheap thing to do? PRESIDENT:I, I'll tell you what I'm gonna...HALDEMAN:What, what, what, that would be perfectlyunderstandable.PRESIDENT:You know what, no, you know what though, we'vegot the--what ticked me off was on the (unintelligible). I, I, I know Len Hall (ph) in, inindicating that he remembered what had happened An the Adams caseHALDEMAN:What happened there was that you...PRESIDENT:He said that he, he said, I know that, thatAdams might have cheated Eisenhower. Eisenhower said "I want to keep him."HALDEMAN:Huh. PRESIDENT:So it was really compounded, that's why Adamshated my guts ever thereafter.HALDEMAN:That's what happened? PRESIDENT:That's what happened. But anyway... HALDEMAN:That was really, that is... PRESIDENT:In your, you see, there are cases of otherpeople, like you were, you can, but, as far asthe top people are concerned, the man has gottatalk to him about it. You don't agree?APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.185HALDEMAN:Oh I think...PRESIDENT:Why hell, yes!HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) he had no sense to know better,but I think they would have been perfectly understandable, uh, about (unintelligible). He said...PRESIDENT:John has got to understand it, from the standpoint of the fact that they, this kind of Dean (unintelligible). Dean is out to get him, morethan you Bob,...HALDEMAN:Yeah... PRESIDENT:...more than you. HALDEMAN:...I think that's right. PRESIDENT:The next story will be from Dean: JohnEhrlichman called (unintelligible). And we justdon't have that (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:John engineered the, the cover-up. PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:Something like that. PRESIDENT:He is the mastermind, which is not true, right? HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). Absolutely right.PRESIDENT:You see, you know, you had one example of itright (unintelligible) when you said, "How the hell did you get Ehrlichman's statement out? Do we go through Ehrlichman on that? Or Ehrlichman (unintelligible). Now if you're on leave, God damn it, then you can fight it practically...HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:...from where you are.HALDEMAN:Yeah, yeah, there's no question on why itdoesn't come from the White House any more. Right? Okay.APRIL 26, 1973 FROM 3:59 TO 9:03 P.M.186PRESIDENT:I'll write it up, don't be too long.HALDEMAN:We can do it.PRESIDENT:Good.