The attached is a recently prepared transcript of aconversation between President Richard M. Nixon, John D.Ehrlichman, and Egil Krogh, Jr. on July 24, 1971. The meeting was prompted by the President&#8482;s concern over leaks regarding the SALT talks. The quality of the tape waspoor, presumably due to helicopter engine noise. Theparticipants are identified as follows:N PresidentE Ehrlichman K Krogh X Unknown No. 1 (either E or K)Y Unknown No. 2 (either E or K)JULY 24, 1971 CONVERSATION BETWEEN NIXON, KROGH AND EHRLICHMAN[Inaudible Section] PRESIDENT: I think that's a place to start. Hook thisguy. Hit it very hard, consider it truefight... UNKNOWN1: Well...  PRESIDENT: I don't want anybody to... UNKNOWN1: But there again... PRESIDENT: ...break (inaudible)...  UNKNOWN1: Yes, I know...  PRESIDENT: ...in a polygraph. Take it over. And then,uh, (she's off to) immediately get aconfession from him. Start with him. UNKNOWN1: Okay.  PRESIDENT: Do you agree with that? KROGH: Yes I do. It's, uh... EHRLICHMAN: Haig says that you'll get resignations, andyou'll get legal action. If you do it thisway. If you could... PRESIDENT: (Inaudible) that, and that!  UNKNOWN1: No, well, we're only gonna do, what,twenty... UNKNOWN2: Twenty. UNKNOWN1: ...twenty, thirty people.  UNKNOWN2: Yeah. UNKNOWN1: It might be thirty. UNKNOWN2: Yeah.  UNKNOWN1: He said (inaudible) ten to fifteen peoplethat will resign. We don't know thesepeople. They heard that. He didn't tell methe exact (inaudible). Just be aware of what we'll have. And, I... (inaudible)liberal, you know, but allright, we&#8482;be got aprime suspect. Fine. Start there and let's screw the hell out of that guy and the people around him in that one unit. UNKNOWN2: Van Cleeve (inaudible). PRESIDENT: Oh, (inaudible) to go.  EHRLICHMAN: Well, we've got one person, that comes outof DOD according to Al Haig, who is theprime suspect right now, a man by the name of Van Cleeve who they feel.is very much the guy that did it. Spent two hours withBeecher apparently this week, he had accessto the documents. Uh, he apparently had views very similar to those which were reflected in the Beecher article, ahd itwould be my feeling that we should beginwith him, and go immediately around him before going to a dragnet polygraph of anyother people. KROGH: Fine.2 EHRLICHMAN: If he doesn't pan out, then move on to apolygraph test. KROGH: Yessir. PRESIDENT: Do you understand?  KROGH: Yessir, I do.  PRESIDENT: Well, uh, are any of these more hawkish ordoveish? UNKNOWN1: Uh, Haig was not able to tell me at this point.This is just what they've got from his man overin DOD, that they've got this man nailed down but they didn't give him (inaudible) before, they don't know that either. EHRLICHMAN: We're, we're thinking of hearsay about twiceremoved right now... UNKNOWN1: That's right. EHRLICHMAN: ...whether he's lib.  PRESIDENT: I don't care whether he's a hawk or dove oranything. Now that the thing's leaked, he's up with the government. Listen, now, that's it (inaudible.) UNKNOWN1: Sir, I don't have anything... PRESIDENT: Wright. UNKNOWN1: ...more to say.  PRESIDENT: Wright, allright. I want you to get over there,I want to get over there. But I don't want any ifs, ands, or buts. But, this Van Cleeve man is what (inaudible) the polygraph for. UNKNOWN1: Fair enough. PRESIDENT: I can tell you something of the polygraph being(inaudible.) (inaudible) have to get a million people who... Are there are a million who have top secret clearances? Do we... UNKNOWN1: No, not that many. PRESIDENT: Well, four hundred thousand? UNKNOWN1: Yup, yeah.  UNKNOWN2: (inaudible) and I will (inaudible) to nail threeor four hundred thousand. PRESIDENT: Fine, fine, fine. Here's what I want: I believethat what we have to do, first, with regards toall, all people, uh, uh (inaudible.) Littlepeople do not leak. This crap, the effect (inaudible) this crap is, is never ending. I studied these cases long enough and it's always the sonofabitch that leaks, as liaison... UNKNOWN1: Ellsberg.  PRESIDENT: ...at, uh (inaudible) or, uh... UNKNOWN1:  Ellsberg! PRESIDENT: Sure, there, there's our (inaudible word). So,what I would like to do is have everybody down through GS-something-or-other, you know, the Foreign Service, and so forth and so on and, uh, and you know what I mean?3 UNKNOWN1: Sure.  PRESIDENT: Here, in Washington, in, in Washington, I want allof them who have top secret clearances, I mean, wecould get them, uh, to agree to take part. Andthen, I think maybe another approach would be to set up a (inaudible) already, with classification, allright, which we would call what? UNKNOWN1: The President's (inaudible) if you'd like.  PRESIDENT: Don't use my (inaudible) My (inaudible) thisgoddamn office. UNKNOWN1: (Laughter) PRESIDENT: I think just call...Should we call it, uh(inaudible) presidential, or, uh, I don't think presidential, uh, that doesn't mean anything anymore. Uh... UNKNOWN1: We used presidential documents before, with one ofthe (inaudible) we were working with, but that didn't uh... EHRLICHMAN: How about...Uh, looking forward to the court case,I wonder if we could get the word national securityinto it. PRESIDENT: Yeah.  UNKNOWN1: So that national, uh, (inaudible). Nationalsecurity classified, or national security such-and-such, or uh... PRESIDENT: Well, not the word (inaudible)...  UNKNOWN1: Allright, uh, uh, PRESIDENT: ...because if you (inaudible) now (inaudible)... UNKNOWN2: How about, how about (inaudible).  PRESIDENT: National security, uh, national security, uh,restricted. UNKNOWN1: (inaudible word.)  PRESIDENT: National security, and, uh, (pause) and, uh, Ithink national, national security, uh, restriction or code, or national security, or, er, er...Well, let us work at it. What I had intended, I want agood classification for that purpose. Andeverything that I consider important, and only those things I consider important, will have that classification. Then all that classification, every document that is ours, is to be numbered. You see what I mean? UNKNOWN1: Um-hmm.  PRESIDENT: Uh, and the people, so that we'll know what peoplehad it. Now the fact that a hundred had it, uh,would (inaudible) that, and I want to find out why a hundred had it. They may grovel around or (inaudible.) Well, Goddamn it, I told them two weeks ago not to put this up, and they should follow up on it. Nobody at all is up on a goddamned thing. We've got to follow up on this thing, however. We, uh, we, uh, had that meeting,you remember the meeting we had when I told thatgroup of clowns that we had around here, Renchler and that group. What was his name? UNKNOWN1: Renquist.  PRESIDENT: Oh, Renquist.  UNKNOWN1: Yeah.4 PRESIDENT: I said, look, look at the number of people. Whathave they done about the (inaudible) number? UNKNOWN1: Oh, they're, they're at work. PRESIDENT: What have they done about the thing?  UNKNOWN1: They're going to cone back at you with a whole newclassification scheme. PRESIDENT: But they didn't. But they didn't. UNKNOWN2: (inaudible) UNKNOWN1: (inaudible) and Haig confirms it. The point in doingthis is obtaining (inaudible). PRESIDENT: Good. Well, what I want with this, but that I wantwith this, what I want, what I want with thepolygraph, I, uh, you put your finger on the realproblem. A person in government, or a person with access to top secrets, can refuse to take apolygraph. Nobody is to have access to thepresident's class-, uh, or no, national security, uh,national security, uh, (pause). Why don't we justsay national security, I think you're right, national security not top secret, national security, uh(pause). Let's go national security, or somethinglike that, but anyway, get that. Go to three letters,like, ah, FM or SMS, or something like that, uh... UNKNOWN1: FM?  PRESIDENT: On the whole, that kind of a thing, let's say. Butlimit the number of people that get them. We knowwho gets them, and then everybody who gets them mustsign the thing to do, agreement to take a polygraph.But also, with regard to, with regard to the agreement to take a polygraph pledge: I want that tobe done now, with about four or five hundred peoplein State, Defense, do forth, so that we can, uh,immediately enter that. Don't you figure that? UNKNOWN1: Yes, I do.  UNKNOWN2: Yessir, we're going to have drafts of that waiverprepared and samps, we're having to look at what thesamps... PRESIDENT: Yeah. UNKNOWN2: ...and the tapes develop first. And (unintelligiblepassage.) PRESIDENT: Yeah. UNKNOWN2: (Inaudible) PRESIDENT: Uh, uh, granted, I mean, uh, this place is all peoplewho you're doing this with, the top executives of the government, who have access but not to (inaudible)thing, that should include everybody on the NSCstaff, for example, if you start with them. Youshould include about, ah, a hundred people, say.Probably about four or five hundred at State, four or five hundred at Defense, and uh, two or three hundredover at, uh, CIA, and uh, that's it. I don't careabout these other agencies, forget that. All CIApeople have gone through a polygraph. They taketheir own polygraph. UNKNOWN1: But it's uh, obviously, then, an employee can furnishor refuse to take it. PRESIDENT: That's right. But now, if they're (inaudible), ifthey take a polygraph and happen to (inaudiblepassage) the job that doesn't waive their right not to take a polygraph.5 UNKNOWN1: That's right.  PRESIDENT: I don't want anybody, that just has everybody,to have to do these. They should have that.Every CIA person should have to (inaudible word) a polygraph. UNKNOWN1: Yeah.  PRESIDENT: But I, uh, but uh, I'm uh, but I don't knowanything about polygraphs, and I don't know howaccurate they are, but I know they'll scare thehell out of people. KROGH: They scare people, they're clumsy. They ask alot of tough questions, personal questions about a man's sex life, about what his mother was like, things like that. These polygraph tests,if we run them, would, would be morerestrictive, we'd ask four or five basic questi6ns about the story, their familiarity with the incident, whether they talked to Beecher, what he said to Beecher, things in that context. I've got the thing, the set-up now, if you are, are, in other words, maybe(unintelligible passage) making critical, or... UNKNOWN1: Haig, Haig has told me that he's...  PRESIDENT: Wright, now we're talking about one person.  UNKNOWN1: ...that he is, he is for taking the one guy asfar as you're going. PRESIDENT: Go ahead. UNKNOWN1: Yes. But what he's objecting to is, is troublepast that. He says you will find for yourself... PRESIDENT: I don't think I (inaudible word) your point.  UNKNOWN1: (inaudible phrase)  PRESIDENT: The point is we're going off this one personnow. UNKNOWN2: Okay.  UNKNOWN1: And then I'll decide whether we have to gobeyond the guy. PRESIDENT: Right.  UNKNOWN1: What I'd like to do is, I&#8482;ll do a report on thisguy and go immediatley around it, one that... PRESIDENT: That's right.  UNKNOWN1: ...come back, then come back and start...  PRESIDENT: Come back and see what else we've got to do.But we're going to start shaping up, (unintelligible). UNKNOWN1: (Inaudible) keep this moving through theweekend, so that we may send something back toyou... PRESIDENT: Oh, I&#8482;ll be available.  UNKNOWN1: ...after tomorrow.  PRESIDENT: I'll be available.  UNKNOWN1: Allright, I just wanted to know. And if wecatch the guy, and his resignation is to bedemanded, and, and, and, (inaudible word)...6 PRESIDENT: Not quiet. Allright, understand. Anyperson, there's. there's one condition. You catch anybody, it's not going to be quiet, I'm gonna, we're gonna put thegoddamn story out. He's gonna be dismissed,prosecuted, ...they're prosecuting him. EHRLICHMAN: Uh, the polygraph is not useful forprosecution. PRESIDENT: Allright, but the point is that if a(inaudible word) charge is made against him, then we're going to have to see that he's tobe prosecuted. UNKNOWN1: The basic decision (inaudible).  PRESIDENT: I'll let you work the guy out (inaudible)...cross-examination...(inaudible). UNKNOWN1: Right, right.  PRESIDENT: Allright? I will, well, I just think weought to run ahead and, it does count. Thisdoes affect the national security, this is acase for measures (inaudible word) like the Pentagon Papers. This would involve the current negotiation, and it should not(inaudible) getting out, jeopardize with thenegotiation position. Now, goddamn it, we&#8482;re not going to allow that. we're justnot going to allow it. Allright, good luck. KROGH: Yessir, thank you.  PRESIDENT: Fine.  PRESIDENT: Oh John. I just, uh (inaudible) the firstof my occasions (inaudible) talk about thetax thing that way. (tape ends.)
