Transcript of a Recording of a Meeting betweenPresident Nixon, H.R. Haldeman and CharlesColson on March 30, 1972 from approximately 1:30 to 2:30 p.m. in the Oval OfficeColson:...I don't know, maybe the, maybe the ITTthing'll be behind us.President:(Unintelligible) hell no. All that -the mainthing is that you talked to Chuck, told Chuckabout your conversations with, uh...Haldeman:I didn't.President:Has Kleindienst talked to Eastland today aboutit?Haldeman:I haven't heard. (Unintelligible) unknown.President:You don't know what is, what Eastland hassaid. You want double-check, just be damnsure that he's not misleading us on this(unintelligible) again.Haldeman:Uh, at, at the (unintelligible)he may havecalled.President:One thing I want to do is to get--I wastelling Bob this morning, I think I shouldstep back on it a bit. I think deeply, youknow, I mean as I should have been involved,but, uh, without telling you what is involvedand I don't think you should know, uh, I haveit now set up that I can do what needs to bedone. You understand what I mean?Colson:Yes sir.President:Now, one thing you have to (cough) is that allof us quite, uh, Bob has talked toKleindienst, has talking to him, is talkingabout, you understand, is that for the play towork that I have in mind -I have my delusionsabout what I think will happen, but I could bewrong. We could all be wrong. Uh, I don'tthink so. But, (unintelligible) anyhow. But for the play to work, we must all appear forthe next two or three weeks to be making asmuch of an effort as possible to getKleindienst confirmed.March 30, 19722from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:Um hum.President:We must appear to be doing that. If we do notappear to be doing that, we're going to have ahell of a problem not only in terms of notsolving the ITT case, because Kleindienstgetting out it, don't worry, Teddy will find other ways to keep the goddamn thing alive.It'll help some, really. But the other pointis, the other problem is then we have theworst of both worlds. In other words, theKleindienst problem, Chuck, cannot be solved.I've done a lot of thinking about it since allof us talked. You remember, I was the one that raised the point in this office and Isaid, "Why not bite the bullet now? Why notin committee?&#64258; We all intend -and I think therest of you were right when you said, "No,you've got to have a provocation?''Colson:Right.President:The reason you've got to have a provocation isnot incidentally, so much, in my view, thatthe public will say that's an admission of guilt to withdraw his name. They're gonna saythat anyway. But the reason is much moreproblematic: Kleindienst has got friends.Colson:Um hum.President:You've got the Mitchell problem, you've gotthe Eastland problem and you got theKleindienst problem. You've got people around the country that say "What the hell.&#64258; Now,whatever anything happens here Chuck, it's gotto be done in such a way that they are onboard.Colson:Oh I, I totally agree with you.President:See what I mean? Kleindienst is gotta be onboard.Colson:Terrific.President:Mitchell's gotta be on board. And Eastland'sgotta be on board for another reason -becauseyou're never gonna get anybody else confirmedunless he's on board.March 30, 19723from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:That's correct.President:You may not be able to get him confirmedanyway. That I, that I, uh, -and of coursethen you're in, there again you're in problems too. This is just too goddamnedbad, isn't it. Uh, supposed thatKleindienst er, withdraws, is there any way we can handle this damned thing without sending another name to (unintelligible). Iguess you've got to make an effort to getanother man, don't you think?Colson:Um hum.Haldeman:Sure.Colson:Uh, you'd have no choice I, I think. If, ifKleindienst goes down, you...President:And then have another name up and, and well,then, at least, then they'll say the Senatedid confirm him and then we could say that's pure politics now.Colson:Oh, I'd love them to turn down the secondname if the guy was completely clean and outof it...President:Well, now it look like...Haldeman:Who'd be clean?Colson:Hum? Haldeman:But who's completely clean? President:No, but what I meant is, has nothing to dowith this case.Colson:That's right. President:That's the main thing.Colson:Had nothing to do with,...President:There's got to be somebody. Colson:...had nothing to do with the JusticeDepartment period. AndMarch 30, 19724from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:So, then if they turned that guy down, thenyou've got a hell of a -then the issue turnsthe other way. They won't be that, theywouldn&#8482;t be that stupid.President:Now, the game that we have to play between nowand next -uh, I won't be talking any more about it. You take your days off and forgetit. You forget about it.Colson:We, we already...President:What I want you to do, what I want to do isthat I want you to concentrate (noise) you,your efforts and your staff's efforts on thethree big issues. In other words, the one issue is the cost-of-living thing.Colson:Food prices.President:The second -food prices is the cost-of-living.The second issue is the issue of uh, we'vealready discussed uh...Colson:Bussing.President:...the Meany bussing. I mean well, the Meanyis related to the food price and the otherstuff, but Meany I put as a separate issue. Meany, bussing and then the other thing ofcourse is our greatest strength, we're notplaying adequately and that is "Nixon, the manof peace.''Colson:Um hum.President:That just has enormous punch. Now, those fourissues are what we ought to be playing. Now, let's illustrate it runs (unintelligible) ifan (unintelligible) As long as I am devotingmy thought, and you are devoting your thought,and -MacGregor's a different kettle of fish,MacGregor's sole job is to get this goddamnthing through. Uh, you know, I mean, and he'sgotta, he's gotta to appear to be trying. But,I think up to this point, the role that wehave all played has been right. It would have been very much in our interests to discreditthe whole thing.Colson:Um.March 30, 19725from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:And incidentally, I don't want, I don'tthink you should be discouraged about whatyou accomplished. You know when you weresaying that we should have cut it off two weeks ago. Not so sure. As a matter offact, the developments of the last two weeks-sure you've got the (unintelligible) of the $600,000 and the White House thing and the rest, but also you got Dita Beard's uh, youknow, testimony. Uh, you've got, uh,denials. You got the typewriter thing. Uh, you're not, there --in other words, I thinkthe cloud of confusion has to a certainextent been raised about this case.Colson:Yeah. I think the, the President:I don't think we've been hurt the last twoweeks.Colson:We haven't been hurt this week really. Uh,I don't know about last week. This week we have not been hurt. Interestingly, as amatter of fact, I think the media the lastthree days has been less anti-Administration.President:Is that right?Colson:Clearly. President:Well, I sense that too but (unintelligible) Colson:Well I've watched it. It's beginning tochange. Walters in the Star has been justvenomous. Yesterday's piece was quitebalanced. This morning's piece in the Timeswas a very balanced piece and went into theauthenticity of the memo in depth and how Crone and Titel had found this andPresident:It did?Colson:Yes sir.President:What did you put out on that yesterday? Colson:Well they, they delivered the report of the,uh, McCrone...President:(Unintelligible)March 30, 19726from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:...and Titel to the Committee. The reportgot progressively stronger as the week wenton. And as of yesterday, both McCrone andTitel's report said it was typed in January.President:They did?Colson:Yes sir. And the, the, uh,President:That's good. Colson:The Times this morning, Graham, who's beenhost'lle, his piece w-was relativelybalanced and didn't mention any conflict ofthe FBI, but anybody reading it would have some doubts about the memo. The TV haschanged. Hruska last night got...Haldeman:...(unintelligible) Colson:...more time than Tunney, and he was moreeffective, and they used the best portion ofwhat Hruska said. That's the first timethat's happened. The night before,...President:Great. Great. Colson:...Tuesday night, we got Scott on one of thethree networks and no anti-ITT stuff on -oranti-Administration stuff...Haldeman:Hmm.Colson:...on any of the other networks. Mondaynight, we began to get a break when one of the networks took Scott and Hruska's press conference and --that was ABC.President:Yeah, ABC. I remember you told me.Colson:So, there has been an evolution, Mr.President, that, that last week they werejust dumping on us, just everything washostile. We're beginning to get a little bit of...President:Well, when I spoke the last to you, rightafter the night you began to get the DitaBeard typewriter stuff out...Colson:Yeah. About Friday.March 30, 19727from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:(Unintelligible) last few weeks.Colson:That's right. That's right.President:I thought maybe this maybe was a leak.Colson:No, but...President:But, nevertheless, nevertheless, it was worthit. It's been worth it. I now think, I now think we're in a position where there isn't ahell of a lot more that we can really do.When I say that, that there isn't a hell of alot more we can do, as I look at the game,first on Kleindienst, firour effort should beall out to try to get an up or down vote on atotal close-off of the hearings next Thursday with no compromise. I understand there'sdivision here. Uh, uh, uh, apparently, uh,Clark doesn't think you can get that, uh, geta majority there or doesn't, is that right, hedoesn't think so, you don't think so.Colson:Skeptical about it.President:Skeptical about...Colson:Skeptical about Eastland's position, skepticalabout how firm our Republicans want to be.President:Right. Well, it will be Clark's business toget those Republicans as far as he can. Eh,and it will be, it will be Kleindienst'sresponsibility and when Mitchell gets back I'mgonna put him on it 'cause Mitchell's ass isinvolved in this now too, you see, as he'swell aware and uh, -on Eastland, I mean.Colson:Um hum.President:They've got to get Eastland first to theextent now that they -Eastland owes a lot.Colson:Um hum.President:He owes them one hell of a lot.Colson:Um hum.President:Now if he doesn't get Eastland uh, you'regonna lose him, aren't ya?March 30, 19728from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:Yes sir.President:You don't think you can do that you mightlose him on it or he might compromise with,you know, with Kennedy.Colson:I thinkPresident:That's the worst of both worlds if you sendKleindienst to the floor and then Kennedy continues to run with an investigation subcommittee.Colson:Or you keep Kleindienst in while theycontinue the investigation. Unless they could get an agreement to limit it to fouror five people and get it over with within aweek.President:Oh shit. Don't do that. Don't do that. Colson:Well...Haldeman:(Unintelligible) to work.Colson:Well except that, well except that they didit in Rehnquist's case and that, that's one or the other options I was coming to(unintelligible) just before we came inhere.President:What's that?Colson:Well, if that would head off any othersubcommittee investigation that would continue the ITT case regardless...President:Who do you want, Leach on it?Colson:No, God no. Heh. I've never wanted Leach.But uh, if you could limit it to three or four or five people.President:You'd be for that?Colson:Well, only if you had an absolute commitmentthat they would not continue it in a subcommittee investigation. Then I'd let&#8482;emgo another week.President:You would?March 30, 19729from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:Well, if, if the other option was to turn itoff cold here and start it up in one ofKennedy's subcommittees, yes. Because hecould...President:Well Kennedy's subcommittees though, doesn'thave -doesn't a subcommittee operate underthe approval of the whole committee?Colson:Yes sir. And that's where Eastland iscritically important.President:That's right. Well he's -it's got to becold turkey. And so that is one of the reasons why everybody's got to do a battle.Colson:Yeah.President:That's -the only thing that I need tosupport here is that we've got to call in the chips on Eastland. Now, I have a littlegame that you can go play with him too. Ican tell you or Clark about him, but it's got to be done.Colson:Um hum. Well, the best of all worlds wouldbe close off the hearing and...President:Period. Colson:...not spurn any others on next Thursday.That...President:Not what... Colson:Not, not create... President:Not have another.Colson:...any new ones.President:Oh no. I don't propose that they ought tohave another one. I'd just as soon have itgo on full committee. Really.Colson:Yeah. That's what I'm saying. President: Yeah. Colson:If you could then and get a clear...March 30, 197210from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:No, otherwise you got Kennedy as theChairman, Jesus Christ, the Chairman of thesubcommittee. He'd kill ya.Colson:That's right. President:I know. All right. Now.Colson:Bob and I have...President:You will determine that when? Haldeman:Thursday. President:You'll know Thursday, won't ya?Colson:Yeah.President:Well, we don't need to speculate about it.I mean it's nothing -We don't need to worryabout it.Colson:Yeah. President:I don't think that sitting around andworrying and speculatin' about it will do usa damned bit of good. We've all beenbeatin' our brains about this and with good reason. I know uh, uh, uh, -I mean, I, I think that you said we came very close onseveral occasions, if we could completelydestroy the authenticity of that memo and if the goddamned Bureau had not gotten thatcrazy note of theirs in there, then we wouldhave shaken Kennedy to his eyeteeth and discouraged them in future stuff. But at the present time, Chuck, you just gottafigure that they're gonna be investigatingus in all things. I mean...Colson:Well, you know...President:...this business about Flanigan and allthis.Haldeman:That's it. We clean this one away, there'sgonna be new one floating in,President:What is, what has happened incidentally onthe initiative, if anything, to have Flanigan give a private call on, uh, onErvin do you know what it mean.March 30, 197211from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Haldeman:MacGregor is talking to Ervin...President:He is?Haldeman:...on that, which Kleindienst agrees is theway to do it.President:All right. Good. Gotta find out. I don'tthink it'll help, but let's start out.Haldeman:He's probably done the (unintelligible)President:But anyway, wouldn't you say you're(unintelligible)Colson:I was gonna say, Bob and I have a agreementbetween us, that, uh, we will not discuss itwith you because we don't want to take yourtime and if you...President:It isn't my time. I think that, I thinkthough, I don't want you two to discuss amongyourselves so much.Colson:Right.President:I really think this, this point, at this pointwe've got a lot of other eggs to crack. And mypoint is, I just, I just think it's terrible(unintelligible) about somethin'. You, knowhere we alone. We all know this is important. We know it's important to win t is battle.But when we're fighting this battle, we can'tfight other battles.Colson:That's...President:And that's what I'm concerned about, and I'dlike to have you with all your bright guys andthe rest.RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;Colson:Yes.President:What do you -or do you disagree? What thehell, what the hell more can you do by, youknow, by, by, by concentrating on this damn(stuttering)other than, other than that, allMarch 30, 197212from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:out attempt on Eastland, an all out attempt(cont.)on the part of MacGregor and his crew to holdthe Senators in line. Then at the end of theweek, they knock that off. Then, he goes tothe Senate floor, let's suppose that it does,then you have the inevitable delay. And there will come a time then, when we will have tomake a decision as to how long it can play.Colson:Um hum.President:Now, that I won't tell you about, but we knowwhat we're gonna do. But my point is, you'vegot to make, you, you've got to be sure thatthe case is made, in the public mind and in the minds of the men that are so deeplyinvolved in this, that we have made aneffort...Colson:Right.President:And that we didn't pull the rug out. That'sthe point.Colson:Nobody, nobody up until this point could arguethat we haven't made a superhuman effort.President:I agree. Colson:And that...President:I agree...(President and Colson talking at once)President:What I think, what I think is involved is notup to this point.Colson:Right.President:What I'm saying is, at this point, theirjudgment, and I'm speaking now of Mitchell'sand Kleindienst's judgment, as to what willhappen regarding confirmation, and in my viewis probably wrong. On the other hand, youcannot say "Look, you're wrong, and get thehell out.&#64258; That we cannot say. What we cando, is to demonstrate they're wrong. It won'ttake too long, but it'll come. And oncethat's demonstrated, (noise) then everybody's together.March 30, 197213from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:Umm.President:You see my point here?Colson:Yeah, I do.President:It's (unintelligible). I, I have no doubts.I am not, I am under no illusions aboutwhat's being done in this case. I have noneat all. I uh, uh, I, uh, I know what the Democrats are gonna do. Uh, uh, and I think the people who think Kleindienst can beconfirmed are probably wrong. I'm not sure,I mean I can't be sure. Uh, but I think they're probably, uh, probably wrong. Ithink the probabilities are very, very high.Uh, but I do know that -you see that isn't my problem.Colson:Um hmm.President:What we've got to b-do, we've got toconvince them that they're wrong, by showing that -like, like for example, Kleindienst sits and tell us that, that old Eastland'sgonna be with 'em. Even this, uh, who thehell he thought was gonna be confirmed, Byrd?Haldeman:Byrd.President:Byrd. He says "I've got Byrd.&#64258; Haldeman:Byrd. President:Christ, I don't think he'll ever have Byrd.Haldeman:Byrd.President: Huh? Haldeman:Byrd. He thinks that, he thinks that...President:Well, Byrd. He, he'll get Byrd.Haldeman:He thinks they're all with him exceptthat...President: Yeah.Haldeman:He thinks, he thinks, Hart is doubtful.Kennedy and, and, uh...President:Yeah.March 30, 197214from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Haldeman:...Tunney are against him.President:But he thinks he'll win &#8218;em all.Haldeman:Bayh would be against him if he were there,but he's gone.President:Now, coming to th-th-th-, I -b-but on theother hand you see, the fact we face, Chuck, is not whether he's right or wrong, but thathe thinks that.Colson:Um hum.President:Now what we have to do is to give him that onechance. In other words, when a guyColson:I agree.President:...is nominated for Attorney General, he's gotto have a chance to have his run at it.Colson:I agree.President:And if he can't make it...Colson:No, I don't...President:...we're prepared. Then we -on the otherhand, our whole attitude around here now -Iwant you to get down through your staff.You're to tell this to MacGregor. He's got toget it through his head. The whole attitude is what I said in the press conference:&#64257;Kleindienst, I had confidence in him when Iappointed him; that, uh, that he can be andshould be confirmed&#64258;. That needs to be theposition. Now if we may change our mind at acertain time. And, uh, it's, it's a m-we knowwhat the probabilities are. All of us, each in his own way, has a different view on thatas to when, how, and so forth, as to wh--as towhether he can or -you know what I mean, I, Iam perhaps, I'm more realistic about, any ofthe rest of you because I, perhaps would havedone it much sooner. But the point is, havingcome this far, now we're in a position wherewe cannot roll/ruin(?) him and then haveMitchell, Kleindienst, Eastland, and a considerate body of their friends say, "Well,we really could have made it.&#64258;March 30, 197215from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:Oh, I agree. I, I understand thatcompletely and believe really, Mr.President, that there isn't anything that wecan do between now and next Thursday. We've got to run it out.President:You know it.Colson:It just isn't any... President:Well, the only thing you can do would be,for Christ's sake, to (unintelligible)(noise) this memorandum and affidavit inwhich you say, Bob, obviously you turned in something else this morning.Colson:On Jesus.President:There must be oh-- Colson:The big, the biggest difficulty Haldeman:...to keep anything else from coming up.Colson:...the biggest difficulty here(unintelligible)...President:There is a lot of stuff around here. Colson:...the biggest difficulty is that I have notbeen able...President:ITT is a bad company, I suppose. Colson:...I have not been able to tell Kleindienstor Mitchell what...President:What you know. Colson:...the pitfulls are and I, what I knowbecause either one of them could be calledback as a witness. I could...President:I know, Colson:...merely say to you that, that I've lookedat every shred of paper and...President:You've seen it all? Colson:I've seen it all.March 30, 197216from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:And it isn't good.Colson:It scares the living daylights out of me.President:That's right. Well, that's the point...Colson:Sorry that's it. President:Well, that's what did -am, am, am I, am Iwrong though -isn't that what shook Mitchellyesterday?Haldeman:There was one, one... Colson:Yeah, but Christ...Haldeman:...flavor of that.Colson:Yeah, but one test -- Haldeman:He was only a little piqued which was what(unintelligible) was gonna say.Colson:Mitchell does not know of memos that weresent to him because I've refused to tell him. I (unintelligible) on to them. I don'tthink he knows.President:Memos that were sent to him from whom? Colson:From the Whitefrom John Ehrlichman. Uh... President:Ehrlichman wrote memos to Mitchell?Haldeman:Yeah.Colson:Yes sir. President:What, on this case, specific case?Colson:Yes sir, at the most damaging times. I meanthe memos, eh, eh...Haldeman:They have nothing to do with the SheratonHotel (unintelligible).President:Oh, I understand... (President and Haldemantalking at once)President:...antitrust policy.March 30, 197217from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Haldeman:That's right.President:Well, Ehrlichman was the chairman of that orthe, uh, well Flanigan was I think.Colson:The most dangerous, the most dangerous onewe don't know how many copies were made ofwhich is, which is our problem. And we haveall of our copies (noise) in a safe, uh, but we don't know what happened to it in the Justice Department and we can't find all thecopies at Justice. And that's a May 5, 1971memo from Ehrlichman to the Attorney General in which he talks about the sessions betweenyou and the Attorney General on this caseand on...President:That's right. Colson:...these quite agreed upon ends in theresolution of the ITT litigation. Well thatmemo, if that came out in that Committee would, would be pretty tough right now, uh, because that would lay it right into here.And we think we're got control of it, butthe point Bob makes this morning -and I've discussed some these memos -is very validthat with or without these hearings if thesegoddamned things leak out now they're gonna be just as big an explosion.Haldeman:Well, if someone&#8482;s got a copy of that memo,it's gonna be used.Colson:Whether there's hearings or not. Haldeman:Whether there's hearings or not, whetherKleindienst stays here or goesPresident:Yeah. Haldeman:...off to the the moon. Colson:I'd say. But I would argue that getting thehearings--Haldeman:I would argue, that if somebody had copiesof those, we'd know it by now.Colson:I'm not sure. Uh,...March 30, 197218from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Haldeman:I don't think they would have waited thislong, but they might.Colson:Depends. I would...Haldeman:They would have been willing to run...President:Well, if somebody has copies you mean andsomebody in I T and --, not ITT, but somebody at Justice you mean.Colson:Yeah.President:In Mitchell's office, huh?Colson:Well,somewhere in the --well hell no, thosememos, his, his testimony just goes out thewindow. If he, if those memos are floatingaround. So I-I -that, that's my, that's been my biggest concern in the whole goddamned...President:But the Ehrlichman, on the other hand, theEhrlichman, uh, the, the Ehrlichman, uh, talkswith me and, uh, and with Mitchell, that whenI talked to Kleindienst on the matter,involved, as I recall, Ehrlichman and Flaniganapparently had talked about this matter.Flanigan -eh, isn't that the situation?Colson:Um hum. President:I think that's...Haldeman:And the whole problem of antitrust.President:But Flanigan , Flanigan was well(unintelligible). He began a meeting in herewith Connally, Flanigan all the rest.Flanigan was supposed to (unintelligible).Flanigan got heat from first, didn't he? Flanigan passes it to Ehrlichman. Ehrlichmanfinally came in and he said, he says, "You gotto do something about Justice. I'm havingproblems with Justice on this thing.&#64258; And Isaid, "Fine, let's get the goddamned thingsettled.&#64258; He didn't discuss the case, I meandidn't discuss (unintelligible) or anything ofthat sort. And that's, that's all there wasto it.Colson:No, I agree.March 30, 197219from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:Only the way Ehrlichman writes thememorandum was that; it says that, he saysthat the ends...Colson:Well, he remarks... President:...and he needed to be we, did reminded ofthe ends. We just -I don't think Mitchellknew what the Christ the end was.Haldeman:or Ehrlichman did. President:What?Haldeman:Basically.President:Well, Ehrlichman had known. Colson:Yeah, we, we all knew the details of this. Imean, I-I say "we all," but several peopleunderstood the problem.President:Did either of -did you know? Colson:Yes sir.President:Well how the hell did you know it? Where wasit discussed?Colson:I had met with Ehrlichman on this in Augustof 1970 when the issue first came up.President:I know, but, but who and where at the WhiteHouse was this matter discussed. I'd like to know myself, 'cause all I know is thatEhrlichman came in the office one day and hesays, "I got problems with Justice.&#64258; I said, "What is the problem?&#64258; He says, "It's about these damned antitrust things.They're not following, McLaren is notfollowing the things that you lay down and (unintelligible)."Colson:That's right. That's exactly right.President:Do, do you know what, thththat was the time,wasn't that when this all came about? And Ehrlichman asked me to call Kleindienst. Idid it.Colson:There were two times that it came up. One,was,...March 30, 197220from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:I called him only once.Colson:One was in was in the fall of '71, one wasin the spring of '71.President:Yeah. Colson:Uh, but the reason that it kept coming up inthe (unintelligible)President:Why did it come up though? Why didEhrlichman bring it in to me?Colson:Oh hell, the reason it kept coming isbecause every time that IT&T went anywhere,they would, they saw the Vice-President, Connally, Peterson...President:Yeah.Colson:...and those fellows would feed back toArhichman.President:What I'm getting at this this. What I'mgetting at is this:then what happened isthat Ehrlichman was simply reflecting what people throughout the Administration were telling him, so he came in to me.Colson:Yeah. But...Haldeman:You had a philosophical difference. You hadan antitrust chief who was obsessed withdestroying...President:Bigness. Haldeman:...conglomerates for their qualities, forreasons of bigness. (noises)Colson:Bigness.Haldeman:Andour -the policy was that bigness per sewas not the reason for des--, for-President:Andthat was exactly the conversation I hadwith Ehrlichman and consequently, Kleindienst.Colson:That's all.President:I said, you...March 30, 197221from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Haldeman:(Unintelligible)...President:We didn't get into, we didn't get intoanything -we just said now that, we under--we made a philosophical determination...Haldeman:That's right.President:...about this thing. And what the hell ishappening, is Justice carrying it out? It was really, they were not. Ehrlichman was supposed to be disciplining Justice, as Irecall.Haldeman:That's right. President:Wasn't he? Wasn't that's when you broughthim in?Haldeman:That's right. Colson:Um hum. President:Or did he -I don't know.Colson:No, that's right. That's exactly right. Theonly--President:I don't ever remember Flanigan discussingit.Colson:No.President:With me. Haldeman:I don't think he did.President:I don't think he ever did.Colson:No he- President:It was John's (unintelligible). Colson:John is, John ran this.Haldeman:It was John's problem with McLaren.President:John was working with McLaren? Haldeman:Well, he was working with Justice.Kleindienst, and McLaren.Colson:He was working with Kleindienst, McLaren andMitchell.March 30, 197222from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Haldeman:And Mitchell.Colson:But, but your involvement, Mr. President, onthe merits dealt with, dealt with.President:(Unintelligible) Haldeman:There's no problem.Colson:There's no problem.Haldeman:But on the appearance, it's a hell of aproblem because of what they testified to.Colson:Yeah, they, th-th-...President:They testified that I was not involved?Haldeman:That's right. And you weren't in the case,but that&#8482;s a fine line that's gonna be verydifficult to, to--...Colson:Well, the memo, the, the, the documentationdoesn't distinguish the policies from the case.Haldeman:That's right.Colson:That's the problem. President:Yeah. Colson:The substance of the discussions here werepolicy. They, they're proper and they'reappropriate, that they take place here. But in the transmittal...Haldeman:That's right.Colson:...nobody on the surface would distinguishthe policy from the case.Haldeman:And there was no need to...Colson:And...Haldeman:...in the transmittal. Colson:And this-March 30, 197223from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Haldeman:It only now we wish you had, but then therewas no point in it.Colson:No, it was a perfectly appropriate thing.Nobody was even -in fact some of the memos weren't even classified because we didn't...Haldeman:That time.Colson:We, we weren't embarrassed to be concernedwith problem. We ought have.President:well, is it your point that you, that youfeel this, uh, memorandum is so(unintelligible) that we ought to get it out ourselves?Colson:Oh no, no. Jesus, no. I think no. No,I...Haldeman:We don't know that it's out. If we knew itwas out, I would, I would, I would agree weshould get it out ourselves.Colson:Yeah. Haldeman:But, if it doesn't have to go out, it's ahell of a lot better for it not to.Colson:Yeah, much better. I mean, that's a, that'sa, that's a game for what has to be run out. I think. But...Haldeman:In this case you can argue a basicstrategy...President:Do you think Ehrlichman sent a copy of thisto ITT? That's what worries me.Colson:Oh, no. Jesus no.Haldeman:Going back to the beginning- President:Are you sure?Colson:Yes sir. I've looked--President:Did he send a copy to Flanigan? Colson:Yeah. Sent one. President:Flanigan might have sent a copy to ITT.Colson:I--March 30, 197224from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:Now, be goddamned sure of that.Haldeman:I don't think he would.Colson:We, we've dug around.President:(Unintelligible)at same time. Haldeman:He's done a hell of a job on(unintelligible). See, that's what -rememberI told you way back at the beginning...President:Yeah Haldeman:...and I kept saying they're trying to getthe papers in one place.President:That's right. That's right. Colson:I was, I, I wanted to be very careful to seeevery piece of paper. Now...Haldeman:He had one guy assigned... Haldeman&(Both talk at once) President:President:Absolutely right. Absolutely right.Haldeman:...every piece of paper into one place. Colson:And it didn't, it took us a week to get itall together.Haldeman:(Unintelligible)Colson:And as it came in, it was, it was, uh, alittle unnerving.Haldeman:I could see progressively.Colson:I came in here one night at, at two in themorning and had them open Central Files and went down and physically took files outbecause all of these things were in ourCentral File. That memo that I'm talking about was, was in the basement of the EOB inthe Central Files Operation. We had 'emopen it in the middle of one night, uh,...President:What the memorandum Ehrlichman to, uh,...March 30, 197225from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:...the file cabinet.President:...in which he said what?Colson:I don't have the whole text of it. 'Theexcerpt of it, the pertinent excerpt is that, uh, -Ehrlichman to Mitchell.President:Well, I can remember the conversation verywell. I didn't know held written that, that he'd written a memorandum.Colson:Well...President:Does, does John always write memoranda topeople for (unintelligible). He shouldn't.Colson:No, there were four.Haldeman:But this, but this was...President:He should use the goddamned phone. Haldeman:No, but this wasn't the kind of thing thatneeded to be used on the phone really.There's nothing wrong with all of thisexceptPresident:(Unintelligible). Haldeman:...in the context of what has been said.President:(Unintelligible) memoranda, memoranda.Colson:Well, this- Haldeman:Yeah.President:That's why we use the phone, Bob.Haldeman:Yeah. Colson:The difficulty with this one is Griswoldtestified that he didn't bring the casebecause he was being pressured not to and-for good reasons. We, we objected to the policy.Haldeman:The policy rea-, the policy reasons of IT&TPresident:Why is Griswold playin' such a good game inhere?March 30, 197226from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:Well, he's got his own professionalreputation involved as does McLaren.President:Yeah.Colson:But, uh, President:But McLaren and Griswild are quite awarethen what appears in that and certainly...Colson:McLaren is. President:...their subordinates. Colson:McLaren is. Griswold may not be.President:All right. Go ahead.Colson:Uh,... President:So what do you get down to here?Colson:All I get down here, Mr. President, is that,eh, there's nothing you can do about this. We've done, we've done everything we can. We think we've got it under control. Theonly files we do not have under control arethe ITT files which are in th- S-- which have been subpoenaed and delivered to the SEC. Those at some point, I think we haveto anticipate are gonna come out. They'redamaging. They're not as damaging as our own internal files.Haldeman:Have you seen &#8218;em?Colson:I've read them all. Yes sir. President:What do they say? You don't have anythingfrom Ehrlichman climbing into them, do you,I hope?Colson:No. All you have... President:Thank God.Colson:...are files that, uh, are letters that werewritten and memoranda prepared -either letters written to people in the Administration or memoranda prepared aftermeetings with people in the Administration.March 30, 197227from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:All right. All right.Colson:And they contradict testimony that we'vegiven so far and they're very self-serving,I mean they're very...President:Right.Colson:They puff it up. They thank Connally fordelaying the filing of the, of the, uh, a petition to the Supreme Court. Now, that's, that's...President:Really?Colson:Yeah. President:Jesus Christ.Colson:Thank Agnew for it. Uh,President:Isn't that -it's typical though. Colson:Sure. Haldeman:See, Teddy knows that the SEC has thosefiles.Colson:He's asked for them. Haldeman:And is after them. President:What does the SEC say?Colson:Well, Bill Casey says he's got it undercontrol. Ah, yesterday in the Committee...Haldeman:Glad we got Casey there.President:He's tough?Colson:No, he's good. Yesterday in the Committeethey talked about subpoenaing the same records directly from IT&T which they coulddo and probably could get. So, I, I, thatto me is one of the areas that I still expect a shoe to drop, but that isn't, Imean that isn't a big issue.President:Well, the point is though, that, uh, that,uh, getting this fellow out of the line of fire isn't going to stop things.March 30, 197228from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:Well, it's, eh, in my opinion, the whole --President:That's the only thing that I'm thinkingabout. You know that's why at a moment ifyou could surgically cut if off. We just take the heat of saying, "Well, we werewrong."Colson:But... President:...that I appointed the wrong man. Colson:I don't think you can.President:You don't think so.Colson:I've got, uh, I -the answer that I-- President:That's the answer: We can do it, we can doit, you know what the hell...Colson:No. President:...just call up there and say that, that-"Dick, I'm sorry. There's too much inthere.&#64258;Colson:No. The only reason I even... President:The Executive prestige won't suffer. Colson:The only reason I even mention this, Mr.President, is that...Haldeman:Except that they will replace the salary. President:No but they might have the other way. When?Colson:The only reason I mention it is, thatneither Mitchell nor Kleindienst know what is in the files and I have deliberately kept it from them.President:Sure.Colson:Because if they have to testify, it's bestthat they don't know. I told Mitchellcertain things not to say, uh, when hetestified based on my knowledge of these files, but I didn't tell him why.March 30, 197229from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Haldeman:Mitchell and Kleindienst know that there arethings in the files that they don't knowwhat they are.Colson:That is correct. President:That's right.Colson:They know that. And I told, I warned John,that I, I said, "I'm telling you not to say certain things because I know why you shouldn't say&#8482;em.&#64258; He said, "I've got ya.&#64258;He did say one thing he shouldn't have said,but --President:What was that? That he hadn't talked to, uh,uh, Reinecke?Colson:No, uh, he said that in his meeting withGeneen initially, he didn't talk to anyone else afterwards, which he did.President:Who did he talk to?Colson:McLaren. President:Which he should have. Colson:Which he should have.President:Yeah. Just passed it on.Colson:Damn right. Haldeman:Nothing that is bein' done.Colson &(Talk at once)Haldeman: Haldeman:...was wrong. Colson:Nothing. Nothing, that's the whole thing.President:He did nothing. It's just that he had totestify to the contrary.Haldeman:That's-President:If everybody had just gone in and told thetruth. But maybe they didn't know what the truth was.March 30, 197230from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:I think that's part of it. (All talk atonce)President:And I remember, well of course if I hadn't(unintelligible), but I remember very graphically the whole thing &#8218;cause I didn'tget into these things, but, uh, Ehrlichmanone day came in here.Colson:Saw that-- President:Got apparently to the -you know he neverbrings things up unless he has to.Colson:Oh another thing... President:It's like his men with the staff. I mean,but he didn't mention you, he said Flanigan.I thought, I think that's who he said he had met with. Frankly, that's why I've been worried about the Flanigan part in this. Idon't mean that he, that Flanigan shouldn'thave done it.Colson:Well, the files show, so-- President:But, what the hell was, what the hel4wasFlanigan main contact with IT&T for theWhite House?Colson:No.Haldeman:No.Colson:No. President:Then why would Ehrlichman come and say that. Haldeman:Because Flanigan was assigned to ride herdon some of this -and he was gettin' it fromother -it wasn't just IT&T.President:I see.Colson:Oh, no. Hell, there were a whole...President:Talking about when Ehrlichman came in onthis occasion to talk about ITT and antitrust generally.March 30, 197231from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:That's right.President:And he says, "You've got to get McLaren inline,&#64258; which was a pet subject of mine,because I said "Fire the son-of-a-bitch.&#64258;Haldeman:That's right.Colson:Um hum.President:And I called and I said, "Either he gets inline or you fire him.&#64258; That's all mention about the general policy. I didn't givedamn about IT&T, didn't even know what thecase w--Colson:No.President:(Unintelligible).Colson:I was with you... President:And I don't know whether Ehrlichman, uh, uh,reflects that in his file or not. H- h- h-he may have overstepped where he says thatwe discussed the end and result or what's he talking about?Colson:That phrase, the precise phrase is "the, uhagreed upon ends in the ITT case.''President:The what? Colson:"The agreed upon ends in the ITT case.&#64258;President:Jesus Christ. What the hell's he talkingabout?Colson:Well, he's talking about the policy issue,but...Haldeman:(Unintelligible) agreed upon is general.Colson:Yeah, that's right. It's perfectly, it&#8482;sit's fine except that we, we want to keepthe thing out of view.President:Except that we did not have any agreed uponends in any -he did not discuss the IT&T case with me. He didn't say what it was...Colson:No.March 30, 197232from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:...at all.Colson:No.President:Not one word.Colson:I was with him one day, Mr. President, whenwe talked to you about this...President:Yeah.Colson:...and it was strictly the policy question. President: Yeah. Colson:And that's all.President:Well, he didn't say what it was about anykind of --but we're gonna want lem to peel this off, or do that.Colson:No.President:Or have (unintelligible). The question waswhether bigness in itself should be a cause for an antitrust action and my answer wasno. That was all we ever discussed. Sowhat's he mean by the agreed upon ends? I wonder -it doesn't seem like --John's usually quite precise.Colson:Well...President:Maybe he had some agreed upon ends. Haldeman:He isn't saying--.President:Did the White House tail, try to tellJustice how to settle this case?Colson:Well, you would... President:That they should not have done.Colson:...you would gather that from IT&T&#8482;scorrespondence, but not from -well you --President:I see.Haldeman:I think they did to a degree.March 30, 197233from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:Yeah, I think so too.President:You mean we decided what the hell theyshould peel off and not...Haldeman:(Unintelligible) Colson:No. No. No. In effect we -the only thingthe White House...Haldeman:We told them to dr-, to settle rather thanto carry the thing through and to settle on the basis of dropping -see another factorcame into this which was the question -general economic interest.Colson:Oh, hell big one, big one.Haldeman:And the harm that would be done to theeconomy if, if, if the (unintelligible)--President:Right. Haldeman:(Unintelligible)...Colson:Um hum.Haldeman:...this deal. President:Oh that's right. They were afraid of, uh,what, uh, uh, a bit -of the effect on thestock market, all that crap, wasn't that it?Like Penn Central.Colson:You gotta remember this was, this was lastsummer when, when people were really worriedabout...President:Yeah. Colson:...doing anything that would rock the boaton the economy and that's why Peterson wasso (unintelligible). But it -the, the -no, the only thing the White House...President:Bob says perfectly alright.Haldeman:What they were... Colson:Of course.March 30, 197234from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Haldeman:...doing exactly what they should have beendoing.President:Except that some of them have testified tothe contrary.Colson:Well, you got a little bit of that but, you,just got...Haldeman:That's... Colson:...it's just that the damn... Haldeman:Even there it isn't, isn'tColson:No.Haldeman:...uh... Colson:...isn&#8482;t fatal.Haldeman:It's, it's, uh--Colson:It's just that-- President:I don't that, I don't think, Chuck, that'sgoing to be, uh, be uh, too bad, uh, and,if, it comes out, it's out. Then you justhave to say that, uh, uh, then Ehrlichman's gonna say what Peter--that he, he was only reflecting what, uh, what had occurred in aCabinet meeting with regard to the, withregard to the policy, I mean, th- the Committee on Economic Policy. Why I thinkthat's what it was, the Cabinet Committee onEconomic Policy...Colson:Might well have been, yeah. President:...with regard to the -well that's what hesays.Colson:Well, it -in addition to which it's a veryappropriate area to be concerned with. Youknow it -the, the previous Administration,Johnson had made the decision that, that you needed legislation to stop the conglomerate movement. McLaren came...Haldeman:(Unintelligible) protection.March 30, 197235from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:...down and sold Ehrlichman in April of 1969on the idea that you could do it in Courtand Ehrlichman said fine. Then you got twoyears down the road and the thing began to become a huge issue and that caserepresented our policy and it was absolutelyappropriate that, that we say that we wanted them...President:That's right.Colson:...to settle it.Haldeman:Well, McLaren was hell bent for going toCourt to establish a --President:He is a great trust-buster.Haldeman:Well, no to establish a legal base on whichhe was gonna then move on all the other stuff.Colson:That's right. That's right.Haldeman:And we, we didn't want him to. Colson:I-- President:Well I see this, but this, but what -thisgets back to whole Kleindienst(unintelligible) doesn't affect the game plan at all, does it?Colson:No, it doesn't affect the game plan...President:No. Colson:...in the slightest except -and the onlyreason I even raise the point is -- thatthey're not perhaps as sensitive to whatPresident:What could happen if I continue in this. Colson:Yeah.President:Well they want -- what -- I don't -- I thinkin fairness to...Haldeman:There's no- President:...Kleindienst you better say this. Eh,Kleindienst and Mitchell...Colson:Oh, Kleindienst--March 30, 197236from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:...now want to knock this damn thing offThursday.Colson:Yeah.President: Ah-- Haldeman:There's no question, I don't know aboutMitchell, but there's no question inKleindienst's mind, but that it's stuck directly to him, that this has to be knocked off clean with no compromise on Thursday.President:That's right.Colson:Well as long as -that's, that's the onlyreason I ever mention that to -there isn'tanything else we can do other than--President:Oh God, there's no question to that. Isn'tthat what I told him?Haldeman:And I reiterated it today and that wasabsolutely clear in his mind...President:Sure. Haldeman:...and it was confirmed as the... President:Thursday is it and that means knock it offperiod. And don't even think you ought tohave four more witnesses, Chuck. I'm afraid that...Colson:Oh I...President:...kinda-- Colson:I'd like not to. I'd like to knock it offtotally. Ah....President:Yeah.Colson:...that's the reason I (unintelligible) President:I think that even the -whatever they want todo uh, uh, -do you think that if they knockit off then Kennedy might come in and say, "Look, this is what they tried to cover up.&#64258;March 30, 197237from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:Right. No. I think, I think if I weregiven my choice, Mr. President...President:Yeah.Colson:...of a two month Kennedy subcommitteeinvestigation or four or five more daysbefore the full Committee...President:Oh, that's a different matter. Colson:That's all I'm saying is if you, if youbrought outta there with a, with a definitetermination of a hearings and a limit towhat else they were gonna do, that that would be better than a free runningsubcommittee for any length of time thatmight go thereafter.Haldeman:Sure. Colson:So that's a variation on the altogethercutoff.Haldeman:And that's a variation to go to... (Colson and Haldeman talk at once) Haldeman:...anybody.Colson:No, hell you only go to that if, if you'restuck with a Hobson's choice and that that choice isPresident:Incidentally, Connally...Colson:...(unintelligible) President:was very, very strong, as you may recall,er, and sent in his -very, very strong to,uh, against this whole, uh, antitrustpolicy.Colson:Oh, hell everybody -yeah, the wholeAdministration was.President:Except for, except for, except for Justice. Colson:Except for McLaren. President:Mitchell, McLaren. Remember, we had that,it was a knock-down-drag-out meeting. Iremember it. John Mitchell came in and saidMarch 30, 197238from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:conglomerates are terrible in gen--(cont.)Mitchell was on the other side, uh...Colson:Hmm.Haldeman:(Unintelligible). President:To his credit, he, he defended McLaren.Colson:Sure did.President:Uh, but then finally went along. Colson:Well, I-I just don't think there's anythingelse between now and next Thursday we can doother than Clark McGregor and Dick withEastland, making a massive effort to turn this thing off. And if that fails, then Ithink you have to reassess the options atthat point, but if that, if that succeeds...President:Well if that fails, we know what we'll do. Colson:If that, if that succeeds, then, thenwe're...Haldeman:(Unintelligible)... Colson:Couldn't be better. Haldeman:(unintelligible).President:Let me say, that I would rather either haveit cutoff, it's either got to be cutoff or (unintelligible), but if you leave it in anykind of a never-never land, that's the worstthing.Colson:Yeah. President:I think that you either -I'd rather lose thehope to cut off...Haldeman:That's right. President:...up or down than to have it -well, we can,we cut it off, but we're going to continuefor an indefinite period of time with some -and then have another vote to cut off in three or four weeks. Th- th-th--Colson:Um hum.March 30, 197239from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:That's the worst of both worlds 'cause yousee, if you lose the hope to cutoff...Haldeman:Then you can act on that.President:Then you can act on Kleindienst. Colson:Um hum.President:And must. If you lose the vote to cutoff.Colson:Oh, yeah that... President:If on the other hand, you win the vote tocutoff, uh, that's...Haldeman:Then you move to Committee.President:Then you move to Senate floor and if theygive a reasonable time in which, uh...Colson:Mmm.President:...to see whether the Senate's gonna act,then you'll know.Colson:I agree. You'll quite...President:You'll know.Colson:...quite rapidly when Mansfield gets thefirst request from the Policy Committee for a hold, that's when -and, and how long heputs the hold on. You'll know within amatter of a few weeks. Course you have the other delay of, of the Committee reports,but thatPresident:The odds are. Colson:Yeah. That doesn't matter. Matter of fact,th- th- those reports I wanna see.President:Sure. To see what they say?Colson:Well, no because w- the majority report... Haldeman:(Unintelligible).Colson:...should close it off. It may be avindication which would be fine. Then the issues got...March 30, 197240from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.President:It's good to have a Committee report.Colson:Yeah, that's what mean, I, I, wanna--say Iwanna see it. I wanna take one.President:I had hoped when they cut it off that therewould a Committee report. Let's get themajority of the Senate Judiciary Committeeto sign a report, if they will, saying that they think this whole goddamned thing is flimsy and that he's a honorable man. Ifyou can do that.Colson:Well, that's, that's what we're aiming for.Yes sir. The interesting thing, Mr.President, I th-and I think the mostsignificant is that my checks with people who count, Kleindienst's, uh, uh, MacGregor's gotten some feelings from someof the congressmen that it's beginning tohave an impact.President:Yeah. Colson:But I talked, for example, to Bradshaw, DaveBradshaw of the --President:Yeah. Your Chicago correspondent. Colson:And he said this, and he said, "There's noeffect.&#64258; He said, "Forget it.&#64258; He said,"It's unimportant.&#64258; Lou Harris, uh, said "Don't under any circumstances back down or withdraw Kleindienst --President:Not now.Colson:It's not hurting you and he made, Made avery interesting point which I haven't gonedown to check. He said that after Carswelland Haynesworth, we did not decline in the polls at all and I haven't gone down to look and see if that was true. He said, "Thosekind of defeats don't hurt you, people sortof take...President:That's politics.Colson:...Washington politics in stride.''Haldeman:Well, we talked about...March 30, 197241from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:Bryce Harlow said...Haldeman:Jenkins, Jenkins and, and Bobby Baker and(unintelligible)...President:Jenkins and Bobby Baker (unintelligible).Colson:That's right.President:And Eisenhower wasn't hurt a damn bit I, uh,in, in the Sherman Adams thing. Didn't affecthim one wit.Colson:No. Uh, Bryce Harlow said, "Don't worry aboutit.&#64258; He said, "I've just come back from Ohioand this, this ain't very big in theprovinces.&#64258; He said, "It's a big story aroundhere, but you haven't been hurt yet in the provinces.&#64258; So, thus far --Haldeman:On the other hand --President:On the other hand, the one thing that youcan't have, you can't have a situation where(background noises) Kennedy and thoseDemocratic (unintelligible) speakers can getup and say what I said in Miami in &#8218;68.Colson:Yeah.President:"We need an Attorney General.&#64258; Do you get thepoint? This is where the, this is where andthis can't go beyond this room, but this iswhere the Mitchell theory and the Eastlandtheory completely falls apart. Well, we'lljust leave Kleindienst in as Acting until theelection. That will not work. Don't youagree?Colson:That's, that's the big negative to that one ofcourse.President:Well, the negative, (tape skips) the negativeis what the hell are they gonna do? They'regonna just knock the (unintelligible)Colson:Um hum.President:Unless we can say, "Well, it's all politics.&#64258;Haldeman:Nope.March 30, 197242from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m.Colson:That's not a good -uh, having an ActingAttorney General is not....President:(Unintelligible).Colson:...is a very undesirable option. It, it maynot be the worst option, but it's --President:So then it's -gotta get ready for Mr.(unintelligible)Colson:Ah, yes.