3/30/72 NX + HRH 11:52 to 12:15000NI must say it's quite differentHI believe it isNAnyone who believes a thing like that deserves HJust been unbelievable. Y&#8482;know. Built himselfup as a little kid. Dedicated. And has become end up the greatest swimmer in worldhistoryNReally?HOh. Yeah.and all the rest. NYeah. Well - I was going to suggest that afterI finish these knick-knacks around 12:30, I think it would be good to get Colson and McGregor to come in after you haveHWell, I've--N HWell, I've covered it with McGregor. I'vetalked to KleindienstNYeah HAnd I've talked to McGregor NWhat'd you say to Kleindienst?HWell I went through just exactly what we talkedabout with Kleindienst and he said oh hell I didn't mean to imply to McGregor in any way that he should talk to Eastland. Now - I think he did itNYeahHBut he backed off of itNYeah, yeah &#338; but HAn I think is that it's just-- in making thedeal with Eastland I can do a better job because, because he likes me better and moves me more--NYeah-2-H--to put it in its simplest termsNYeah, yeah, Right HAnd what I felt that I ought to do that. Ithought it was best understood.NYeah HBut we have a problem that if you want this tobe a relationship where nobody's allowed to talkto Eastland butthat's, that's kind of a problem.NYeah, right. HAnd he said o hell no and Clark should be goingwith him --NYeah.H-- on the.vote counts NYeah, right H-- and the technical NRight H-- all that NGood let me call ClarkHNo problem on that and when he said I-- thatthere was a story that Marlow Cook was going for a compromise on this thing. And he said I've talked to Marlow Cook about that to see what he's talking about and Cook says that he's solid for a, a, complete termination vote but he feltit would be a good strategy for him to saypublicly that maybe we ought to look into sane compromise on the thing. He&#8482;d certainly think that was a good idea so that it doesn't look like the Republicans are trying to cover up. He said in executive session he would voteuncompromisingly for total termination and hesaid there'll be no problem because the compromise that Teddy will seek will be so outlandish that we can, probably we can just reject that out of hand.I&#8482;ll just say unreasonable.-3-NRight25 HWhatever it is NRight HAnd so he at least and and McGregor brings thistoo, does, it not concerned about the&#352;- wh--NRight. RightHWh-- NGood. That covers the thing Hhis being directly obese and when notMardian being with them and he said I understand that and I willin thereNGoodHAnd ah I said now tie only other problem thatwe've got to clear up is is there's apparently some thought on Eastland's part that ah ah it would be a good idea for you to continue through the rest of the year as acting Attorney General. Somehow he can't be allowed to go on having thatproblem. And he said I understand that and Idon't thinkNYeah HY' know he's understands it-- misunderstands theoverhand and all thatNYeah. All rightHBut anyway I got thatNYou got that and you got HI got that NGreat HSo he knows that. I said obviously as thePresident made very clear yesterday that'sthat's just a potential that we can't rulepolitically and ah---4-N RightH-- he said oh I understand that. And-- NRight, H-- so I went in and talked to Clark.Kleindienst had already talked to Clark on the phoneNYeahH-- before I got to him. He had not talked toEastland yet, so this, thisNRight HEastland. Kleindienst NYou talked to Clark.HI talked to Clark and Clark said there's ah, Iunderstand all that and that's fine. And he said and there-- we talked through the whole thing. I said this what Klein-- Kleindienst and he said I agree. Kleindienst is the better guy to cut the deal with Eastland. Eastland does, is suspicious of me. On the other hand ah if myhands are to be tied and I'm not to do anythingexcept be anI said they're not to be and said the President -Oh. I hit Kleindienst on that pretty hard. I said that, see, Clark's problem, Dick, is that it's his view that he's the President's CongressionalNRightH-- that he has an assignment from the President- RRight H-- which is to deliver the confirmation NThat's right HThat&#8482;s where we&#8482;re crossed.NRightHNow there're some prices which we can take indelivering that but you don't know a goddam thing about it--NRight-5-NRightH-- and shouldn't and never will NS&#8482;right HWe've got a Senator who wants a Veteran'sHospital and we may give it to him.NS&#8482;RightHAnd we've got another Senator who wantssomething else--NRight H-- wants something taken out of the record, andwe may take it outNRightHBut that&#8482;s nothing to do with justice--NRight H-- you don't know a damn thing about it? NRight&#8482;s time HBut Clark does NRight H-- and do you really wanta pull Clark outa that?And he said well-- and I said I also understandthat you talked to Clark last week and made the point that you were counting on him to deliver the ah,NYeah H...confirmation...NYeahH...and he says that's right NYeah. Rightj HAbsolutely NGood HSo that's all cleared. I covered that all withClark. He said fine. I he says maybe I over-reacted but I&#8482;d&#352;NYeah-6-HN H NHRESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;NHNYeah HI said well it probably woulda but I'll get itcleared up. I just want you-- And he said I'm not asking-- I said-- I'm not asking you to do anything I just want you to know what my problemis here so that you'reNGood Hhas to go down the track on that NGreat. Great. H-- and I'll take care NI just don't want Clark to feel we-- we'retrying to--HWhen we finish when I finished with Clark I saidhe said ah I don't wanna rush you out but I do have the President's 12 o'clock appointment waiting. Maybe I oughta go catch him and ah, ahNSure. Yeah 59HI said, ah, fine but ah, maybe ,maybe we oughtto go down and see the President and just make sure this is all cleared up. He said, if the President wants to that's fine if there's any concern in his mind.-7-PRight, rightHBut, he said you clear everything up I have no need to see the President.PRight HSo that&#8482;s where that is. Now, in the meantimeyou should note, MacGregor just told me this,that Colson after McGregor, Colson and I metthis morning, Colson got McGregor aside and said I want you to join with me in a private memo I'm sending the President urging that Kleindienst withdraw now. And McGregor said, I will not join in that, I don't want to be on record andthat it isn't any of my business and Colson saidyeah I noticed you waffle in (?) the President's office on that point the other day. And, ah, McGregor said well waffling(?) may be what you'd call it, I hadn't thought about it. My assignment is to get the nomination confirmed and that's what looking at and I haven't-- myfirst assignment was get the ah, the hearingsterminated and that&#8482;s what I&#8482;m working on.PRight HI ambeyond that as to what ought to bedone and when the President asked me I said I hadn't thought about it.PBut does Colson have a new scheme(?)HI don't know. I'll see his memo that, ah PWell, we don't need to have memos written toeach other.HThis is this is a point. PYeahHAnd McGregor said, I don't, he said McGregorsaid lookPIs McGregor, will he HThere are numerous... PKleindienst out and oh Kleindienst right now canwithdraw.HWell, I can&#8482;t-8-PDo you think so?HNo PDoes Colson think so? HI think PI asked this point, I asked about HColson's back on his scare tactic again of thememos that, from, there's a memo from, ah, ahMcLaren to Ehrlichman er, all those things, we've heard about &#8218;em before.PYeah HAnd he said, he told Clark about &#8218;em, he said Ihadn't told you about them before 'cause Ididn't think you should know they were there andI haven't told the Attorney General or Kleindienst because if they're called on the witness stand they shouldn't know these existPRight, right HBut they're there and we've got to terminate thehearings in order to avoid these things comingout. And then, I think he's now arguing thatmaybe with the hearings terminated, that Kennedy in his frustration will find some way to get these out if he or find out about them if he doesn't know about them if he doesn&#8482;t know about them which I can't imagine that he does, and get&#8218;em out some other way. AhPYeah HIf we can keep Kleindienst up for confirmation.Now, my answer to that would be, they don't give a shit whether Kleindienst is confirmed or notPThey'll take what they're going to get(?)HThey're going to get those out, they're going toget them out anyway.-9-PWell, the fact that weColson forgetsKleindienst is not the issue. They want to get this stuff out. They, they're going to get it out one way or the other anyway-but they have the information.HIf they know about it, they'll get it out andour terminating the hearings isn't gonna stop&#8218;em-- withdrawing the name just isn't gonna stop &#8218;emPYeah. Well, can't I can't urge you to do thison Colson. You get him immediately while I'm going through the rif-raf today, 'cause you knowhe's been a hell-of-a loyal soldier here, saynow Chuck, you're to take off 3 days and, there's another thing too you've got to get understood here that either whatever he called you memoranda and so forth and a lot of things these days, mideast and so forth thatHUm humPBob, I'm spending an inordinate amount of mytime talking to Colson, talking to McGregor, talking to you about these goddamned hearings. It's wrong. There isn't a thing that I can do that's gonna effect and also I shouldn't knowthis much about it.HSure. PI just feel that I shouldn't. Now you know whatI mean is that I, ah I think that, I think what oughta happen here is that everybody oughta do their goddamn best to, you know, to to work outa strategy and then if I have to be brought in &it, I will do it butHyeah PI think what is happening is that it's partly myfault, I gave Chuck a call once or twice-10-HWell, you're interested.PI'm interested butgoddamed thingbut Ithink we're too close to it. I think Chuck's too close to it of course [phone rings] there's stuff out there. So it comes out that he wrote him a letter. So, so far example Kleindienstsubmits that people are going to be worriedabout whether he, what his letter to Larry O'Brien said. They aren't going to give a shit.HThat's the point. PYou see the point? HYeah, and if all that comes out it's gonna comeout anyway.PBut Chuck, but Chuck's point is that what--Kleindienst now resign or, or withdraws his name, on what grounds?HThere's no way. POn what grounds? HBefore the Committee terminates, he can&#8482;twithdraw. If the Committee terminates, he sureas hell can't withdraw.PThat's right HThe only place that he can and may have to, isif the Committee bogs down or if the Committee continuesPIf the Committee continues, then he should sayit's clear that I can not be confirmed. I withdraw my name. But I don't want Chuck leaking that to the press. You understand?HYup PThat's what we've got to avoid here.HYupPThat will, that will get it to a place whereKleindienstas a matter of face.HHas to stay in,-11-PChuck has got to, he's can't, he can't talk toso many people.Hyeah PAh, now can I ask you to, now, I'll talk to youat 12:30. I want you to talk to Chuck and say, you're doin' a great job here, we're on exactlythe same track, but we've got to work it outbetter. Does Chuck now that we&#8482;ve been, can he guess is that's what the hell I was talking to Kleindienst about?HBut he knows it. PAbout his withdrawal?HSure. Because they know, you know, we, youtalked to (P & H talking at same time)P...writing a memorandum HThey both know that's what it was about. PWhat's the purpose HI made the point to both of them PWhat's the purpose of the memorandum?HThey just don't wanta know what it was about,obviously they do but they don't want to so they forget about it. They don't know.PIn fact (?) the meeting never took place.That's what they should know. This meeting never took place. No, you can't say that.HWell, it doesn't matter. There's no reasonPBut my point is, I do feel, I do feel thatChuck, there's got, you've gotta get him off the kick that he figures he's a lobby (?), you know he's, you know, he's a fighter. God bless 'em but. He's fighting Mardian on this too. He'salso fighting Mitchell. You see what I mean,and he thinks that other people are taking different views.-12-HWell they are.PMardian may be. I think though thatKleindienst now knowsvery damned well what we have to do. Doesn't he?HYes. PDoes he knowHHe laid the groundwork for doing it. He, he putinto thewhich I kind of explained this to McGregor, I said the other point here is, we're better off with Kleindienst knowing that these hearings have to be terminated, it's his ass too now.Pyeah.HCause he is commited that they will beterminated.PThat's right. HThat he's to cut the deal with Eastland to getit done. Now that's up to him to do.PThat's right.HNow obviously that doesn't preclude you workingin every possible...PNo Hway you can to get &#8218;em cut off. PI want you to talk to Chuck and say now that'swhat we're trying to do. If the hearings arenot terminated, Chuck, it's another game. Butnobody's to breathe a thing. But we haven't got a provacation whereby Kleindienst can say today that he can do it. And tell Chuck that that, that he's got to know thatHChuck'swith that line.PIs, huh, what well Chuck's got to know that hisidea is full of shit. That he says they aren't, if I'm not confirmed in two weeks, or three weeks I will resign. That will not work. That I know is wrong. I mean it's a game which will not play. You agree with that?-13-Hyup. I do.134 NBut he doesn't, right? HI don't think he does NAh right HI hit him on that again this morning. I saidthat is out of, out of the ball parkNyeah HWe're not -That's not under consideration at allHe didn't argue with meNIt just can't work. On the other hand, in otherwords, when it's gotta be done, it's gotta bedone searchfully, you can't say I'll do it inthree weeks. You've gotta say I am out.HUh-- NY'see, so he's a lame duck when he says threeweeks.HChuck-- NNow--HPlus he gives them three weeksNyeah H...of high level attentions to throw all theirshit out at him.NThat's right. S&#8482;right. Now that's the otherthing. So I say to them, that's --I say, nowthe second thing is we&#8482;re gonna now he can&#8482;t cutlistening off. If it isn't cut, then Kleindienst may have to move, and I'm perfectly prepared to do this. In other words&#352;HAnd you told Kleindienst-14-NYeah. I really think that we're gonna have toreally rub John Mitchell's nose in this. Uh we&#8482;ve really got to get Kleindienst if if if they screw around this, in this hearing and we don't get it cut off, then Kleindienst has to go. Now the point that Chuck has if, if, ifthey do cut off the hearings he said wellthey've gonna get it out anyway as long as Kleindienst's name is up there. The point is that, they&#8482;re going to get it out anyway whether his name is up there or not if they're going to get it out.HIf they have it and they want it out they'll getit out.NThat's right. HKleindienst is not a factor in it, NThat's right. That's right. HNo question. NOn the other hand, I think that I should be onestep removed now. I think you'll agree--HYeah N-- from this whole goddam controversy. I, I'vegot to have Kleindienst-- I've got to the word here, I don't want to see the damn memorandum on this damn thing. I don't want onefloating around in here, this memorandum. It'llbe in the Washington Post in a few days.Probably and might well be.HI'll tell them not to send the memo-- NYeah. H(directly)NYeah, yeah. Tell themH-15-N(Right/write) a memorandum on it. We knowexactly what we're doing here. We know what we have to do. But we must-- there's too much talk. And, and ah, now do you think I should get Chuck in? 0h that? Ah right. You get him in now and you have a good talk to him and say,look, we've all in the same track here. Thequestion is: What are you gonna do, put in the memorandum? We don't want one filed. He's gotta give it to a secretary and he'll show it to Wally Johnson. You know how it is&#352;- he-- muscle up, he--HYeahNYou agree? HYep NI don't need to see that. I know what thesituation is. I don't think that Kleindienst can be confirmed either, I don't think his(Vrick)is going to work. But on the otherhand--HYou don't know it isn't. NYeah, there's a chance. Lemme tell you theother thing. And this is you realize. If I dump Kleindienst over his objections and over Mitchell's objections...HSo what?N...the difficulty is, and over Eastland'sobjections, and his friends?-- he's got friends too. A hell of a lot more friends then the White House staff has got, Bob. That's the thing we've gotta realize. That's--HThat&#8482;s...NNow-- H...that's natural.-16-N-- you understand? Now if I do that, then I'm ina hell of a bad spot. If, on the other hand--HYou won't get an Attorney General. NYeah. They aren't going to approve anybody. HThat's right. NThey'd say well screw you. Why should we getMcGregor, if we're gonna send McGregorHOr whoever it is NThat's right. The second part. If on the otherhand I set it up so that Kleindienst himself concludes as a result of some prodding from me, that his staying in the race&#352;--17-HS&#8482; rightNis going to cause more problems than it solves.The whole thing changes. Y'see the point?HSure. NIf this is what Chuck is blind to... HThere's no rationale that you could set that upfor him to take any action now. Plus if it'sdesirable, we justNThat's Hlook ridiculous if we pulled out now NThis week what's the hurry? How can he do itthis week?HThe Committee's alreadyNAnd also HIt's gonna terminate its hearings next week NThat s right. Well. Then they'll vote. Butthe point is if he did it this week do you think they're gonna say, they're gonna say he's doing in (crying) and so forth. And also it wouldmean an enormous public reaction and so forth and so onHSure NHe's gotta do it at the time that there is someaction. First, the committee may not terminate. Then Kleindienst should say I'm getting out, I,I think, that's what has to happen. If thecommittee does terminate and then there is an inordinate delay in the C-- Senate and Kleindienst --&#352;we&#8482;ve gotta set the date in own mind. It's got to say after two (or) three weeks, it&#8482;s clear that I cannot be confirmed andwill not be confirmed because they will notallow a vote and under the circumstances I am asking the presidant to withdraw my name. Fair enough. Is that to handle it?HYes. NThen Kleindienst is out. If, if for example Ihear this Hoover(type) it wasn't somebody else--it was I who raised the point Bob, that we should, Dick, maybe, maybe, Kleindienst oughta get the hell out. Now you remember at the meeting.HYeah NAnd uhHYou were convinced of it at one point.NAnd, and, well then nobody said HNobody felt that. Nobody else... NNobody thought so. Well, the more I think aboutit, that will not work unless it's set up so that he, uh so that his friends will be ,let meput it this way, he's got to have a fair shot&#352;-18-HRightN-- at the chance of confirmation. Do you agreeor not?HRight and then he's gotta be a true martyr-- NI think he's gotta be a time martyr Hand his friends have gotta rally behind usNRight.H-- who rallied behind him NS'right, But we've got H N-- up to this point. HSure.NAnd as far as Chuck'sit'stoexpect that getting Kleindienst out is going to make any difference in terms of whether this information comes out.HS&#8482;right NIf the information (that comes --) Getting himout will, it won't, it won't mean, mean it won'tget as much publicity if he's out of thepicture. You know what I mean?HS&#8482;right. NThey'll say, well, what the hell, They'rebeating a dead horse, that sort of thing.HI agree with that.NOn the other hand, right now, the whole Kennedycrowd is working on this thing.HI think that's right-- all the way. NWould you talk to Chuck now? Hyup. NAnd, and, tell him about the-- the main thing isto, they all gonna been shakey and they want tobe reassured. They worked their ass off,HYou mean they're, they're-- NThey're soEverybody is, and they do.They worked and they've been slaves and they're been loyal, so you tell him, goddamit, thePresident is counting on you for help on a lotof things other than this thing. And because we feel there's a hell of a lot and he'll say this is the biggest thing and this is gonna be-- y'know, if, if we stop &#8218;em on this we may stop'em on other things. Forget it,-19-HN--Stennis is gonna be investigating the War Power,you know that. That's,that's politics, nothing&#8482;sgonna stop them. Not a goddam thing. Now, in, infairness too, we&#8482;ve gotta say this about Chuck&#8482;s new.We've really given him his head in the last three orfour, three weeks on this. And this is going to break, that's gonna breakHNothing's definite.NWe got all this, and he says we got this thing here.Dita Beard's testimony will break it, which suggestedmaybe that'll break and that&#8482;s not all? And, ah, we got thisAnd that's gonna change it and--HExactly like him. He was always right on the brink--NYeahH-- of ending the Vietnam War, for years.NThat's right, And basically none of them has met notan issueHThat'; right,NBut (this exterminates)HN--it happens to be that this is the case where wehaven't gotten a break and we arn't gonna get one,and you know it and I know it. Isn't this true? Onthe other hand--HOh--NI-- HI'm not convinced that we won&#8482;t get the final break.I still think it could very well be that this gets tothe Senate floor they may end up confirming itNBut let me say thisH PThe other thing is this that looking at it basicallythe job that Colson and I and you have and McGregorhas, when we're fighting on their battlegroundHOnly lose.NWe&#8482;re not losing, We don&#8482;t make any ground. We&#8482;vegot to get the word out. Now I know Colson probablyread the news summary this morning and says ohChrist. The two networks had stuff on it and T. Sothey did.HWasn't that-- NWas about Geneen, right?HThat was all right. It was pretty good.NBut the point that I make is this-- what was moreimportant was that three networks had Connally in thelead and how the hell do we set that up? I set that up with Connally, by sitting down and standing (inthe top) as I should have with him, and suggestingthat he meet with these people and he went out andhad a press conference and he put all those-20-meat packers out there at 6 O'clock at night andevery network ran it. Now what do you think of that?HThat's a matter of much more concern to muchmore people--NExactlyHthanNAnd Charlie Colson knows that, you see what Imean? Now he's, we've got to work on these things, just gotta quit worrying about this thing and that thing and how this is affecting us, you know what I mean.HThat's, uh-- greatNAnd also it affects, basically it it defers allof our offensive actions. Remember I said, we oughta hit, ought hit the lost of thing, food price thing we ought to hit the bussing thing, and we oughta hit the President's demandHWe oughta be hitting Meany, too, now.NAnd kicking Meany in the ass and that has reallytaken by the wayside, hasn't it?HNo. NNo, but I mean as fat as we are concerned HWhat I'm doing now that's right. NThey&#8482;re editorials hung highHThat&#8482;s right, but we'll get toNWhat about our people? I mean By God, we oughtabe-- the people that some of those guys should be writing speeches kicking Meany in the assHRight,NI mean, and let's break ass about itHWe got, we got a, on Meany they re pulling allthe AFL-CIO people off of the productivity council so that's fine. And not only don't want to help stop the price rise, they don&#8482;t want to even help increase labor's productivity.NWell, they did say. I noticed for example, uhChuck had four people come into the uh the same dinner and none of them hadHOh, really? NYeah. However uh, is the building trade issuestill sitting aroundHNot much moreNNo more than that?HS' all you ever had-21-NAll we ever hadHon the average NAll we ever had was... HYou take a stab but you lost on that you got agood ending and you gotta use it,NThat's right but after you finish with Chucklet's do that little talk on itHOK N-- and, let's say look we're on the same, butkeep me one step removed from it, uh, didHYeah N-- that I have been spending more time on itthan I shouldHYeah, but I think you oughta say that, NYeah H-- that you, that, that... N H...we're getting to the point where we just--you better take a step back from it, and...NYeah,Hthen, then we all oughta be moving on to some ofour ground.NYeah I agree. It's enormously important... HEaster, let's get some time off, relax NYeahH-- there's nothing we can do on this anyway.NYeah. Is there any way incidentally you couldgive him and two or three of the staff members a ride on uh y'knowcourier plane, or is there?HLemme seeNWhy not?HLemme see. Don't raise it with'em NNo, But my point is-- HDon't you raise any, any vacation with'em.Lemme try and work something out. I think maybe I can.NW--HMitchell's down there. Maybe we can setsomethingNAnd Julie's going down at 2: 30 today. She'sgoing on a jet.HYeah, don't wanna go with her. They can't get&#352;- NI think this would be a nice thing to have&#352;-22-Mitchell is down there. Send uh uh uh I'll askNo, I didn't see any reason why a plane, Iguess you can't, do it , it's too dangerous.HTend to think so but let me see. We may havesomething we can work out. That all dependsNYeah, I'm going down on my vacation there, nextweek and maybe the Secret Service can go downand set up the telephoneor some damn thingHLemme check it. Now this guy's serioushe was here to see Clark McGregor the other dayNSureHNFive, jive 271