Transcript of a Recording of a Meetingbetween President Nixon and John Ehrlichman,February 14, 1973 from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.Transcript of a Recording of a Meeting between PresidentNixon and John Ehrlichman, February 14, 1973 from 5:34 -6:00 p.m.Ehrlichman:And then there'll be a committee bill whichwe'll support.President: Absolutely. Ehrlichman:Yeah. Okay. Good, and we'll publicly stateour position at the time we have one.President: Sure. Ehrlichman: Okay. President:Great, John.Ehrlichman:Well, that's the only thing up to -- that itneeded...President:What about Gray's uh (unintelligible)...Ehrlichman:All right. If you'd like to get into that,uh...President:I think this, uh, I really don't feel myselfthat, uh, -- I've thought about it these andsome other things. I've been doing a lot ofthinking about it. I think we had better take a known quantity with weaknesses that we're aware of in this particular area thanto try to take somebody else. Gray isloyal. Uh, I realize he's weak in some areas. Uh, I realize there'll be someconfirmation problem, but let's look at thatfor just a moment. Maybe it's just as well to have Gray get up there and have them beat him over the head about Watergate, and havehim say what the hell he's done.Ehrlichman:Well, he's prepared to do that. I've beenover this today with John Dean to see...President:Um hmm.Ehrlichman:...what he says the problems will be. Hesays it will be a very long, very tough confirmation, and will be an opportunity foraFebruary 14, 19732from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.Ehrlichman:different set of Senators to get into the(cont.)Watergate than the Ervin group.President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:It will be the Tunneys and Kennedys. President:Right.Ehrlichman:And the Bayhs and so on. But recognizingthat --Gray tells a very good story.President:Um hmm. Ehrlichman:And he could be expected...President:He tells, he tells basically the story thatI think ought to be done -- but the main problem with Watergate are not the facts.Sure the facts, the this, that, and theother thing, the main problem is the covdr-up thing.Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:Now damn it, we just can't have anappearance of cover-up. And I think we can simply say that, yes the -- we, we want -- and let him get up there. You see if youdon't, if you kick him upstairs to theCircuit Court, they'll say that we're afraid... There's no way we'll get aroundit. it'll look like a cover-up. It doesget a different set. It gets Kennedy, Tunney and the rest. So that they'll get after Gray. Gray, it seems to me, makes arather good impression. I don't know, Ihaven't seen on television. Does he?Ehrlichman:Reasonably good. He's very earnest.President:Yeah. (Ummm)Ehrlichman:Uh, he's very square corners. President:Yeah. Ehrlichman:You know, kind of the retired Navy Captain.Uh he, he's vulnerable according, accordingto John's analysis. He's vulnerable on twoFebruary 14, 19733from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.Ehrlichman:counts. One is whether or not he handled(cont.)Watergate adequately and John says, "I thinkhe'll acquit himself very nicely there."President:He does. Ehrlichman:The other is his stewardship of the Bureauover the period of the last eight months.President:Yeah. Ehrlichman:There, John says, uh, the establishedbureaucracy of the Bureau will be feedingall kinds of garbage...President:Yeah. Ehrlichman:...to the Committee...President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:...and Gray will be on the defense. President:Mm hmmm. Ehrlichman:So he says, we're liable to be in for a fewsurprises, on other cases or oth-- thehandling of other matters or things of that kind that are incalculable right now. But he said he doesn't think that he is inserious jeopardy, and on balance, he thinks,uh, Gray is, as you say, is a known quantity. He is a guy we can tell to dothings and he will do them. Now he's been alittle weak on that.President:I know. Ehrlichman:...because of this.President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:He's been afraid of what he'd have to faceat the time of confirmation.President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:John saysFebruary 14, 19734from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.President:Once he's confirmedEhrlichman:He thinks if...President:He'd be tough.Ehrlichman:...if, but only if, you call Gray over andyou read him chapter and verse. And yousay, "Pat...President:I'd agree to do Ehrlichman:He says you. Now I can do this, but, but,he said you.President:Right.Ehrlichman:Uh, you would say, "Pat, I had anarrangement with J. Edgar Hoover that upuntil now I have not had with you and Imissed it. Once you're confirmed, I want it understood that we go back to a personal relationship.President:Without the Attorney General.Ehrlichman:...that when I call, you respond. President:Um hmm. Ehrlichman:And that we have to have a, a absolutelytight relationship.President:Well, how can we get it so that not only Icall but if you call?Ehrlichman:Well, then you could delegate that and, and,uh, go from there. As it is now, uh, John says we made a mistake in, in the inception in not tying him down tight enough. But wedid it, for a number of reasons. He, he wascontingent, and we had this thing hanging up, and he's tracked reasonably well. Now,he has some guilty knowledge in connectionwith the Watergate that only Dean and I know about, uh, that has to do with, uh, Hunt. Uh, we turned some stuff over to Gray to getit out of here. That'll never come out.He'll never testify to that, there isn't any way that he could testify to that.February 14, 19735from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.President:What if he, uh...Ehrlichman:Well, it just isn't necessary. There's noway for anybody to know. And that heunderstands that that set of circumstances never happened and it's never, neverappeared, never came out.President:Where are the files? Ehrlichman:I don't know where he's got em, but he's got'em. We felt that we want to be in aposition to say we had turned everythingover to the FBI, so I called him up to my office one day, and we said, Pat, here's abig fat envelope.President:What is this -- stuff that Hunt did on, uh,that, uh, case in California?Ehrlichman:Well, no, it's other stuff, and, uh, uh,Dean's never told me what was in theenvelope.President:I don't, I don't know what Hunt dealt inmyself.Ehrlichman:Well, he must have dealt in a hell of a lotof stuff.(both talking)President:...doing some things,Ehrlichman:He did, he did some things for Chuck,apparently, that he made record of.President:Was that in this envelope?Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:Did Chuck make a record of it? Ehrlichman:No, but Hunt did.President:How did you get Hunt's stuff?Ehrlichman:Well, we opened his safe. See, Dean tookeverything out of his safe, and we turned everything over to FBI agents who came forit, except thisFebruary 14, 19736from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.Ehrlichman:envelope full of stuff. And, then I called(cont.)Gray to my office. Dean came in. I said,"Pat, here's an envelope. We want to be ina position to say we've turned everything over to the FBI, so we're giving it to you.I don't care what you do with it, as long asit never appears.President:Suppose that they ask him about otheractivities with, uh, Hunt and so forth, whatdoes he say aboutEhrlichman:Presumably, he says I honestly don't know ofany because, uh, maybe he never opened theenvelope. If he was smart, he didn't.President:I don't want to get into that with him, theenvelope.Ehrlichman:I understand.President:(Unintelligible) avoid that.Ehrlichman:But I want you know about it. The, uh, atsome point in time, if you haven't already, Bob or I or John Dean or somebody ought togive you the run down on how this Ervinhearing is going to go, the kinds of things that are liable to come smoking up so you'renot surprised. But, uh, we think thatthere's a reasonably good possibility of coming through it very much like we've come through the trial with, uh, a certain amountof day to day flak.President:Oh, sure. Ehrlichman:And evening television stuff, but no lastingresults.President:Well, I suppose this is all dependent -- Italked to Bob a little bit about it in case there would be some (unintelligible) -- butI suppose, John, it depends, see if he(unintelligible) after he came back from California.Ehrlichman:Right. Right.February 14, 19737from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.President:(Unintelligible) But really the problem isthat one of these guys could crack.Ehrlichman:Sure.President:One of them could. The one, the one thatcould crack that it would really hurt wouldbe Hunt.Ehrlichman:Uh, yea, Magruder could really hurt in adifferent direction.President:Well, Magruder, if he cracks, he goes toprison.Ehrlichman:Yes. President:Well, I -- unless, unless he takes immunity-- is that what he would do?Ehrlichman:Possibly, possibly, uh... President:What do you think? Ehrlichman:There are several of those guys that, thatuh, we're relying on. Sloan is not aproblem.President:He doesn't know anything. Ehrlichman:But, uh, uh, Magruder is a problem of, uhPresident:Magruder knows a hell of a lot.(unintelligible) Let's face it. Didn't,didn't Magruder perjure himself?Ehrlichman:Yep.President:Or did he? I don't know. Ehrlichman:Sure did. President:But I think he did. From what I've heard hemust have.Ehrlichman:Sure did. President:He said he was not involved -- he didn'thave the knowledge and he did. Is thatright?Ehrlichman:Basically, that's right.February 14, 19738from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.President:Yeah. But beyond that, I mean beyondMagruder? Who the hell else perjuredhimself? Did Mitchell?Ehrlichman:I assume so without knowing. President:Well, who else have we got?Ehrlichman:The thing, uh, the thing has a very goodchance if it's handled right. We can cut our losses here, cut our losses there, uh, uh, try and and shore up Howard Baker hereand there, uh,...(President and Ehrlichman talking at same time) Ehrlichman:...backfires and so forth.President:I had heard -- I thought your(unintelligible) I'm not going to be taken by surprise by anything.Ehrlichman:Okay, well...President:When I say that I mean -- the only realproblems that I see basically are whether if, to the extent that it ties into the White House staff, uh, you know, I was justthinking it's fortunate all that lip serviceand everything else we've done -- at least I've never met any of these people.Ehrlichman:That's right.President:Except for Magruder. I don't ever, I don't-- I never met Hunt. Never talked to -- and haven't discussed these things, fortunately.Ehrlichman:Yep. I've met Hunt once, never...President:I knew something, I mean, I mean theSegretti operation must have been, or uh, oruh, that, uh, or no or Colson in areas otherthan Watergate, but purely political stuff.Ehrlichman:Yeah. President:Which was perfectly legal.February 14, 19739from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:Nothing wrong with it.Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:I think they did some work on, uh, on, uh,Teddy Kennedy or something. That's in thepaper already.Ehrlichman:Did some investigating. President:Yeah. Ehrlichman:The other issue...President:(Unintelligible)...Ehrlichman:...raised at this point. President:...yeah.Ehrlichman:...is because the, the handling of Gray inother hands, Eastland and his, and his group could go in an unpredictable direction. I just don't know. And so that's the, that'sthe one lingering hazard. Now, the otherprime candidate is Henry Petersen.President:Um, hum. Ehrlichman:The, uh, Criminal Deputy and he's in just asbad shape.President:Oh, Christ, yes. Ehrlichman:You know. And without the ties that Grayhas.President:He wouldn't care what happened to us. Ehrlichman:Oh, Ruckelshaus is a, a possibility. Ah,ah, there's one other fellow named VernonAcree who's the head of Customs who's apossibility.President:(Unintelligible)Ehrlichman:But, uh, that's about the...President:On the Gray thing...February 14, 197310from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.Ehrlichman:About the spread.President:...for instance I see your point. It's twoWatergate hearings.Ehrlichman:That's right. President:Would Gray -- would not be called before theErvin Committee.Ehrlichman:No, well he could be but, uh, probablywouldn't be. (pause) So sort of double indemnity -- what is -- double, double...President:Double jeopardy.Ehrlichman:Jeopardy. President:(Unintelligible)Ehrlichman:(sigh), uh...President:(Unintelligible) tough-- Ehrlichman:I, it really is. President:We just don't have a good, strong man, aloyalist.Ehrlichman:Well,... President:Bland. Ehrlichman:Yeah, that's it. We combed, you know, aboutas well as we can. Uh, (pause). Let mecome at it from another side. We had the idea of nominating Maury Stans for aconfirmable place.President:I heard about that. Ehrlichman:The thought there is to pull out some of thepoison, to air it in another proceeding.Uh, Maury's pretty clean, tells a goodstory. Ah, he's righteously indignant. Ah, so nominate him, get him up before theSenate Foreign Relations Committee, or someother committee. Let them ask him about campaign financing. Let him tell his story and be vindicated in,February 14, 197311from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.Ehrlichman:in that process. Pretty good, pretty goo,(cont.)ah, collateral action. I'm inclined tothink that there's some of that in Gray --in the case could be made that the very thing would do the same thing. You'd havepapers say. "Gee, now that he's told thewhole story, that was a hell of an investigation. And, uh, the Administration really did turn over every rock."President:Well, for example, they'll ask -- did youinvestigate, did you get it straight from Haldeman. They didn't.Ehrlichman:No, the FB-- the Bureau never did it. Atleast not that I know of.President:But did they get one from you? Ehrlichman:Oh, they got two from me.President:Colson?Ehrlichman:Sure. President:Why not Haldeman? EhrlichmanThey -- it just never led to him. If they,if they'd wanted to, he was available.President:And that's what he would say. Ehrlichman:Yeah.President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:Sure. President:Could I (unintelligible) Ehrlichman:No problem....President:(Unintelligible).Ehrlichman:Yeah. President:(Unintelligible) I think I'd send him up.I'd simply simply send him up.February 14, 197312from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.Ehrlichman:Okay, okay.President:(Unintelligible). You know we constantlyget this story repeated, John, which(unintelligible), a little with --the Nixon Administration's program of investigatingdomestic subversive groups that you know,that goddamned thing started you know what I mean; on this -- in the Watergate story this morning, that thing started as you know,years ago.Ehrlichman:Sure. President:It reached its peak under Bobby Kennedy.Ehrlichman:Oh, the taps and stuff. Yeah. Sure, sure.President:And that those became available to Hunt. Ehrlichman:Yeah. President:I don't know how the hell they becameavailable to Hunt.Ehrlichman:They didn't. They didn't. President:Huh? Ehrlichman:They didn't.President:You sure?Ehrlichman:Yes, sir. President:Those were available to you as I recall.Ehrlichman:But, but there was never any connectionbetween Dave Young's leak operation.President:Oh, that's Dave Young. Ehrlichman:Yeah. See and that's where he tied in andnow we had Hunt working for Dave Young for abrief period of time.President:Oh, I see.Ehrlichman:And what he was doing down there was simplya job of analysis. He was taking all those leaks and matching them up...February 14, 197313from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:...to see where a community among themwas...President:Yeah. Ehrlichman:...to try and determine which documents theycame from.President:But we had to check that? Ehrlichman:Oh, why of course. But, but he never gottap materials...President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:...from anything. President:Did Dave Young get it?Ehrlichman:Oh, Dave Young never got any of thisdomestic tap stuff.President:Wha, who the hell did? Ehrlichman:Well, I got some of it, Bob got a lot of it.Bob got most of it, I think. I'm not awarethat anybody else ever did.RESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;President:The point is if you're ever asked in theDomestic Council about it, I would show someoutrage.Ehrlichman:Why sure. President:That this, the Nixon Administration, whatthe hell, we cut 'em back.Ehrlichman:That's riqht, way back. We cut the Armyclear out -- see they had the army doinq all this.February 14, 197314from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.President:(Unintelligible)Ehrlichman:We cut all that out.President:The army out of it and we, uh, had thenumber of domestic, uh, taps has been cut down to the barest necessary to protect thenational security.Ehrlichman:We'll, we're finally took &#8218;em off. We tookall of 'em off except the national security taps.President:But they're done domestically as well as...Ehrlichman:They're done domestically but they're done,you know, pursuant to that statute and thenumber is way, way down.President:I'm inclined to, to think that we justbetter go to (unintelligible) because I think at the present time we have the worstof both worlds. We can't leave ituncertain. Now how do you handle Kleindienst on this? I've got to run.Ehrlichman:Oh, I'll just inform him. He'll be happy asa clam.President:Yeah. I've got to see him alone. I, uh... Ehrlichman:Right. I would not tell Kleindienst untilafter you've talked to Gray.President:Okay. Should we meet Gray more privatelytomorrow?Ehrlichman:Yeah, yeah.(writing noises)President:All right. Ehrlichman:Okay.President:I'm going to the Pentagon at one o'clock andI could be back by, let's say four o'clock.February 14, 197315from 5:34 - 6:00 p.m.Ehrlichman:Four o'clock.President:Because I don't know how long it'll take.Ehrlichman:Okay, fine.President:If -- you and I will. see him together. Ehrlichman:Alright, alright.President:We'll decide that damn thing.Ehrlichman:I think just... President:Just you give me a very brief talking paper. Ehrlichman:Yeah, alright.President:You can just say that the President wants tohave a candid talk with you about this. We haven't, we haven't made up our minds. Hewants to talk to you first.Ehrlichman:Alright. President:That'll keep him. Ehrlichman:Alright. Good. Okay, I've got other stuff,but I'll...President:Tell him all the damn heat he is gonna bethrough.Ehrlichman:Yep, we've got to do that.President:You could bring it in, in the morning if youwant. I have no, uh, I have nothing to, uh in fact, you could have come in thismorning. I (unintelligible). Wait aminute, tomorrow's Thursday, no, I've put a Cabinet meeting on Friday. Thought I'd let George send (unintelligible)Ehrlichman:Good.President:(Unintelligible/REMOVED)Ehrlichman:Good, well, I'll get him in tomorrowafternoon. We won't put it on yourschedule. I'll get a talker in before that.President:Okay.