Transcript of a Recording of a Conversationof February 16, 1973 between PresidentNixon, John Ehrlichman and L. Patrick Gray from approximately 9:08 to 9:39 a.m. in the Oval OfficeTranscript of a Recording of a Conversationof February 16, 1973 between PresidentNixon, John Ehrlichman and L. Patrick Gray from approximately 9:09 to 9:39 a.m. in the Oval Office Unintelligible.President:Hi. How are you.Gray:Mr. President. How are you sir?President:How are you? Nice to see you. Gray:You look great. President:Fine. How're you feeling?Gray:Good.President:Fine. Gray:Mean, nasty.(Laughs)(Unintelligible)...a bit happy...Ehrlichman:That's cause I got you up early thismorning?Gray:A little bit early.President: Gray: President:Gray:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;President:February 16, 19732from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:(cont.)Gray:RESTRICTED-&#64257;D&#64258;President:Let me ask a couple of other things, uh,having to do with, uh, whether we decidehere, uh -- as you probably are aware, uh,what this, if you were to be nominated, and uh, I think, of course, I've talked to John Mitchell, about this, (unintelligible). Uh,you, obviously open up, before a differentcommittee than the Ervin Committee, the whole Watergate thing. Now the question is,uh, whether you feel that that, uh, that,that you can handle it, whether that's a good thing, bad thing and so forth -- what I mean is, the Watergate committee, eventhough it has these, (unintelligible) andthree wonderful jack-asses on it and so forth. It will be bad enough there, your committee would have Kennedy, and Tunney onit.Gray:Right. President:They'd like to make, uh, uh, make quite adeal about the thing. What I'm getting atis this, uh, I'm not concerned about the substance, about the facts coming out. I am, all I'm, all, I'm thinking is,-.uh,whether it's to the interest of everybodyconcerned to have, uh, the uh, man who is to be nominated for Director of the Bureau bebadgered and so forth on whether it's goodfor us to have that story told twice before two con7tittees, uh, et cetera. So,uh, why don't you give me your judgment on that.You must have thought about it.Gray:Oh, yes. President:You must have thought also of the kind of astory you'd have to tell when you'd beexamined on it. Without being limited to Watergate, they would probably ask you about such things as, do you know about any otherFebruary 16, 19733from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:things that the Bureau's done, have you(cont.) got into this domestic wiretapping,where incidentally, parenth--,parenthetically, whatever you're hearing, it'stime to start getting out the truth there which is, is, heighten the evidence that is onhand. It's the Robert Kennedy Administration,Justice Department, when there were over ahundred a year. It's been cut down to a verysmall amount. Then, I would be not thatdefensive about it. I'd say, yes, we have todo it because, uh, this involves the possibility of, uh, violent groups that we&#8482;vegot this what happened to Wallace,(unintelligible) judicial.judgment.Ehrlichman &President:(Unintelligible)...Ehrlichman:He can tell a strong story.President:Yeah, say, look, what do you want us to doabout this? Do you want to let people getshot?RESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;Ehrlichman:I think the Bureau's been very stupid, I mustsay, and also...Gray:We, uh...President:All this domestic wiretapping, it isn't just,uh, it's anything to do with the United Statesand so forth and of course you can (unintelligible).RESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;it has to do with national: security uh, the,there're a hell of a lot of people, theseviolent groups, who would threaten these uh,the Jews and all the others around, the Arabs.Gray:Um - hum.President:Either one, either side, you know, there'sthis violent Jewish Committee that wants to kill the Arabs and the Arabs want to kill theJews and Christ, they're--February 16, 19734from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Ehrlichman:Terrorism is, a tragic problem.President:Terrorism, hijacking is another thinq. 7~ndyou've got to get Into that. Right. Some ofthat requires wiretapping. Higher and yourauthority, your, your responsibility in hijacking, your responsibility for, uh, this.I think that you've got to get, and I want,John and me for next time. (unintelligible)I'm already hitting. I don't believe weshould be defensive. First of all, we'redoin' less. Second, it's uh, it's, uh, it'sextremely necessary. We must not be denied the right to use the weapon. The idea thatwe're wiretapping a lot of political groups isbullshit.Gray:That's right and that, simply not --President:Let's, let's get back to the fundamental partof it.Gray:It's, it's the otherPresident:You know the, you know the, you know the moodof the Congress, as you know they're, they're panicked, depressed, by Watergate and soforth. What should we do, would it hurt orhelp for you to go up there and be mashedabout that?Gray:Uh, I think probably, Mr. President, I'm theman that's in the best position to handle thatthing.President:Why?Gray:Because I've consistently handled it from theoutset, before Judge Sirica&#8482;s order came toplay, when we were talking only procedure notsubstance, and I handled all kinds ofquestions from all kinds of press people andthen when Sirica shut the valve, why I had toshut up, even on, uh, things procedural. I'vebeen intimately connected with it. I've been responsible for quite a bit of the uh,decision-making insofar as the Federal Bureauof Investigation is concerned. I feel that Iwould have taken a greater beating had not theErvin Committee been establishedFebruary 16, 19735from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Gray:and this is always a possibility there(cont.)that you're not going to get too much flackbefore Judiciary. I think you'd, I think I'mgoing to take the, uh, expected heat from, uh,Kennedy, Bayh, Hart, Tunney, that group, uh, but I don't think it's going to be nearly assevere as it would have been had not the ErvinCommittee been established. I think that'swhere it's all gonna, uh, hang out and I'm notashamed for it to hang out because I think theAdministration has done a hell of a fine jobin going after this thing and I think we're prepared to present it in just that light.Now if you bring somebody else in, uh, you canbe attacked, uh, as, uh, ducking the issue,trying to put a new boy in so he can go upthere and say, "I didn't have anything to dowith this. This happened on Gray's watch.Get him back here and let him talk about it.&#64258;I think it's a thing we ought to meet head on,on every front.President:(Unintelligible) Let, let me say, what, what,what kind of story could you tell when theysay you, that you didn't go into, that we hada very intensive investigation, we ran downall leads, who'd you talk to, yes we, wequestioned at very great length, took swornstatements.Ehrlichman:Did you swear in statements?Gray:Yes, yes, we did.President:And that members of the White House staff-whydidn't you question Haldeman? What do you sayto that?Gray:Perfectly good reason we didn't question Mr.Haldeman. Because no agent, even the caseagent right at the lowest level, felt thatany trail led to Mr. Haldeman. He did .not recommend that a lead be set out to interviewMr. Haldeman. The field supervisor did not.The circulation charts did not. The Bureausupervisor did not...President:It did, leads did lead to others?February 16, 19736from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Gray:it did lead to others.President:(Unintelligible) and so forth.Gray:And we went after them.(unintelligible)Ehrlichman:This is one I had...President:You questioned Mitchell. Gray:Sir? Yes, sir. President:Yeah, Mitchell was questioned.Gray:Oh, thank you.President:You questioned Stans and so forth. Gray:Yes, we, Stans, three times, Mitchell once.Bob Haldeman not at all. I'm not reallyafraid of that thing because I called those agents in at the end of that first week and Just gave them unshirted hell and told themto go and go with all the vim and vigorpossible. I furthermore called Larry O'Brien that Saturday morning and I said, "Mr. O'Brien, I hear there're some rumorsaround this town that the FBI is not, uh,pursuing this with vigor.&#64258; And, he said, "No, oh no," he said, "Let me assure youwe're very happy with what you're doing."So, I'm gonna lay that on their backs and other things like that. I, I don't, fear that investigation at all, Mr. President.President:What else do you think, they will raise?Morale in the Bureau, and so forth and so on?Gray:Well, I think they'll do that but I think wecan shoot that down easily because I've got all kinds of, uh, letters from the field that I wouldn't let come to you. I stoppedthem. They tried to, uh, respond to thiscriticism that morale is bad. It's actually higher than it's ever been in the Bureau.February 16, 19737from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:What other situation, for example, uh, yousee, you haven't been able to do anything orhave you, up to this point, about the leaks, (noise) you know are all coming from theBureau, that the whole story, we've found iscoming 'from the Bureau.Gray:Well, I'm not completely ready to buy that,Mr. President. We have done something.I've been wiping people out of there, youknow, like the Assyrian on the foe. I wiped out a whole division.President:(Unintelligible) Do we have, do we have anyquestion about that leaks, those leaks coming from the Bureau?Gray:No.Ehrlichman:Yeah, Pat and I talked about that,(unintelligible)President:That isn't what our, that isn't what our,our, our Time magazine guy says, he's got adirect channel to the Bureau.Ehrlichman:That's right. Gray:Well, he probably has. Sandy Smith used totalk to a lot of guys in the Bureau and Iwon't talk to the S.O.B. anymore because if he lays the cards down.President:This is very high.Gray:No. We laid the cards on the table andthat's low-- three times, right. Laid 'em right out there. Gave the same cards toNewsweek and each one wrote, wrotedifferently and I just said no more to this clown and I won't, I won't deal with him.President:Well.Ehrlichman &President:(Unintelligible) Ehrlichman:There is no two ways about it...February 16, 19738from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:Smith has written stuff that is true, rightout of the Bureau...Ehrlichman:There, there is no... Gray:...right out of the Bureau.Ehrlichman:...question, about their getting...President:Yeah... Ehrlichman:the uh, uh, the, the information... President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:...off the 703's or whatever those formsare,...President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:...the investigation summary forms.President:So they-- Gray:302's? President:Yeah.Ehrlichman:And, uh...President:Because, I would say if they were false,then I would just say it was time to...Gray:There're some things...President:...bring those things to an end. But thisis a case where they have true information and I say well damn it, somebody from theBureau. Do you think Petersen's office putsit out?Gray:Uh, Mr. President, You have to realize thatother people than, than we get the 302's andI have put some pretty strong controls onour dissemination and our accounting. And, I don't say that it's not possible it cancome from the Bureau, it is possible.February 16, 19739from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:Well, let me ask you this, for example, didyou follow through on the, uh, directivewhich I understand was given that everybody in the Bureau was to take a lie detectortest as to whether, uh, what part theyplayed in the wiretapping of my plane in 1968, has that been done?Gray:No, no that directive was not given out.President:Well, it's given now.Gray:Yes sir. President:Yeah. Now, uh, what, what happened there,who dropped the ball on that?Ehrlichman:I don't know, of it, Mr. President. Gray:Do... President:Yeah. There, that charge has been around,whether it's true or not, I don't know but,uh, that is to be, uh, that has to be, that has to be, uh, the Washington Star has the.straight story, uh, uh, Johnson killed it inthe Star, uh, but it has to be checked out,just for the, for the,-for the integrity ofthe Bureau.Gray:I checked out some of the allegations thatJohn Dean gave me onI guess the book's name is and what they were doing on Anna Chennault and how they tried to uh,uh--President:But there was a wiretap, there was a phonewiretap for sure and there was an allegationthat...Gray:On your plane, sir? President:Hoover told me... Gray:Mm.President:...that the Bureau tapped my plane...Gray:Um hum.February 16, 197310from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:...in 1968 and he told Mitchell the samething.GrayUm hum. President:Now I want everybody in the Bureau who hasanything to do with wiretapping at that timequestioned and given a lie detector test.Gray:Um hum. President:...not because I'm telling you this butbecause the allegation's been made and theStar's been running the story...Gray:Right.President:...and we wanta knock it down. Don't youbelieve you should?Gray:Oh, sure. But I haven't President:(Unintelligible)Gray:I didn't have any directive like that, I hadsome questions from, uh, from John Dean aboutAnna Chennault and company.President:I understand. I'm not making charges, but Ido know that that has come up. All we do isto play it very...Gray:I wouldn't put it past them to do it.President:I wouldn't put it Past Johnson.Gray:No. President:It's not trying to do him in but it is veryimportant that it be known in the Star and Ithink the Star is working with one magazine,I don't know which one, that it be known, that that's being investigated, so that wejust don't say, oh no, the Bureau didn't doit. I know the, uh, I know the Bureau's sensitivity on that, but, uh, are the same people that do wiretapping for the Bureaunow, are they the same ones you had in '68?February 16, 197311from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Gray:We think, uh, we think, Mr. President, thatif such an order came, it came to Deke DeLoach from Lyndon Johnson and that it...President:Well, then, De Loach must be brought in andput on a...Gray:Yeah, if Deke got it, he gave it. President:All right, he used to have it, he's gonnalie detector also.Gray:Um hum.President:He's out, I know, but he's still gotta takeone. I mean, this has gotten -- I want this-- don't you agree, John? We've got to getto the bottom of the damned thing.Gray:Well, I wanta, you know... President:I'm not gonna be in here denying it fromhere unless the Director of the FBI tells methat it's been checked.Gray:Right. President:The FBI cannot be above, uh, the law on thisthing.Gray:Oh, I know it, no, if this was done we'vegotta look into it and if, even if theallegation is there we've gotta look intoit.Ehrlichman:Was Felt there in those days? Gray:No. He was not at, uh, -- he may have beenin the Bureau, I shouldn't answer that tooquickly.President:Who, would you put, uh, who, who do youthink would be a fault of either the secondman over there. Uh...Gray:I think, I think, Mr. President, that, uh,my, my recommendation to you now would be tocontinue Felt but-I think what I've gotFebruary 16, 197312from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Gray:to do is, and which I'm in the process of(cont.)doing, is come up wit-h an overall plan tosubmit to you and you and I should discuss that plan.President:The only problem you have on Felt is thatthe lines lead very directly to him, and I can't believe it, but they lead right there and, uh, and, uh --Ehrlichman:Well, you know we&#8482;ve tried to trap himGray:(Unintelligible) Ehrlichman:...the trap is, the trap is, set trapsaround to see if we, to see if we can turnsomething up and, uh, and uh -President:Well, why don't you get in the fellow that'smade the charge, then.Ehrlichman:Well, maybe that's (unintelligible)President:Of course he's, of course he's, he's not anewsman, on the other hand.Ehrlichman:No.President:He's a lawyer...Ehrlichman:That's right. President:...for Time.Gray:I know who he is, Mr. President. President:...and, uh, well. Gray:I knew the reason, I knew the allegationsexisted and I think, I think one thing Mr.President, I would like to say to you,because I believe I must say it to you, those, those people over there are likelittle old ladies in tennis shoes andthey've got some of the most vicious vendettas going on and their gossip mill is...President:In the (unintelligible)February 16, 197313from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Gray:In the FBI.President:In the FBI.Gray:Sure, it's a, it's the damnedest... President:It's eaves by eaves, hating everybody else.Gray:That's right.President:I have been hearing -- what about thisfellow Sullivan, good, bad or indifferent? Would you bring him back? Would that(unintelligible)Gray:I wouldn't bring him back, at all, Iwouldn't touch him at all.President:Why not?Gray:His first words when he came back toWashington, in response to questions from some of the people in the DomesticIntelligence Division as to why he was here,in two words, "For revenge.&#64258; Bill Sullivan was a very disappointed man when Hoover, uh, put Deke De Loach in the position asAssistant to the-Director.President:He fired, I mean, yeah. Ehrlichman:...Hoover didn't like him.Gray:Didn't like him and he began attackingHoover. Uh, the guy, the guy is too nervous, he's, he's not articulate at all...President:Coming back to, coming back though to Felt,uh, it would be very, very difficult to, uh,have a Felt in that position without having that charge cleared up.Gray:I...President:And, incidentally, let me say this, this is,this is also a directive, you should take a lie detector test on him.February 16, 197314from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Gray:You want him...Ehrlichman:(Unintelligible) accounts.Gray:You want him... President:You're willing for him, to take a liedetector test, aren't you?Gray:Sure. President:Why shouldn't he? Gray:I've taken, uh, hell, I've...Ehrlichman:Has he ever taken one?Gray:I don't know. President:Have him take one. Now, that charge hasbeen made, John you prepare the questions,you know, that have been made. Has he talked to Time magazine? Uh, this and thatand the other thing and he's to do it or heisn't going to get the job. That's the wayit has to be. You see, the thing is that there's a lack of discipline over there at the present time. And we've, -- that's partof the problem, the morale, that's part ofthe problem with leaks.Gray:In the FBI, Mr. President?President:Sure, this stuff didn't leak when Hoover wasthere. I've never known of a leak when Hoover was there. I could talk to him in this office about everything. And thereason is that, it wasn't because they lovedhim, but they feared him. And they've got to fear the man at the top and that's whyI'd get it again -- And Hoover'd lie detectthose guys, I know that he, he even did it to Lou Nichols once, because of charges made he leaked. You've got to Play it exactlythat way, you've got to be brutal, uh, toughand respected, uh, because, uh, the, uh, -- we can't have any kind of a relationshipwith the Bureau, which isFebruary 16, 197315from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:necessary, you know, here, we can't have(cont.)any kind of a relationship unless we cantrust it and I've, uh,...Ehrlichman:That's right.President:...I used to have, and I, and I would expectwith the, the Director in the future to have a relationship -- with Hoover, he'd come in about every month, he'd be there atbreakfast or he'd come in here. He'd comein alone not with the Attorney General. I'd talk about things. I used to have him --mycontact with him, it wasn't, you know he'dalways said tht he didn't want me to designate one person he called, he called on things and, uh, raising hell about Helms andthe Agency, CIA, and the State Department,and so forth. Much of it was extremely valuable but -- and it never leaked out of here, you know that he was giving me thestuff that he had. And he talked -- uh,Ehrlichman was my contact. Ehrlichman will be in the future, you've gotta have oneman...Grav:Um hum. President:...that will not talk... Gray:Um hum.President:I wouldn't think of having it to go, uh,but, uh, anybody else.Ehrlichman:I could use Dean but he's too busy on otherthings so I...President:John, the point is... Ehrlichman:...(unintelligible) rest. President:...The reason, Pat that the relationship ofthe Director, to the Director and Presidentis like the relationship of the President and the Commander, uh, uh, and the Chairmanof the Joint Chiefs.Gray:Right, I understand.February 16, 197316from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:I, uh, as you know, uh, Mel Laird, uh, is, uh,very tough on that, but, uh, he didn't -- he always wanted to be in with the Chiefs, and uh, -- and, uh, just yesterday, two days ago, I brought Moorer over, didn't let anybody from theNSC staff come in. (unintelligible) Wasn't ahell of a lot we wanted to talk about that they couldn't have heard, but I didn't tell 'em. The reason was that I found this summer, for example, at a time when right after we had the May bombing, that I had put out severaldirectives to continue to step up the bombingbecause I knew that this, that was about the time to do it, to put the pressure on to bring about the negotiation. And Moorer told me that he sent over at least twelve recommendations that never reached my desk because Laird didn't want to go forward on it. Now, goddamn it, thisis not going to happen. Now, with the Bureau,it's the President that's the Director, not that you have the Attorney General as the Director. Now having said that, though, we can't do it, we cannot do it, unless there's total communication and total discipline in that Bureau. And, hell,I think if we pick up Time magazine and see thatsomething's leaked out, either out of the BureauI understand leaking out of the CIA, those goddamned cookie-pushers -- but if it leaks out of the Bureau, then the whole damn place ought to be fired. Really, it should, until, justmove them all out to the field. I, I thinkyou've got to do it like they did in the war, you say whenever you know, uh, you remember in World War II, uh, the Germans, uh, if they went through these towns and then one of their soldiers, a sniper hit one of them, they'd lineup the whole goddamned town and say until youtalk you're all getting shot. I really think that's what has to be done. I mean I don't think you can be Mr. Nice Guy over there.Gray:I haven't been. I think Mr. President -- President:The leaks are, leaks- are occurring. There'sfrom some place.February 16, 197317from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Gray:That's right, from some place, but as todiscipline, I have done things with regardto discipline that Mr. Hoover didn't dare to do. I took on Grap, and I met him face toface, and I threw him right out of theFederal Bureau of Investigation.President:Sure. Gray:These guys know they can't lie...President:(Unintelligible)...Gray:...to me like they used to lie to Hoover. President:...(unintelligible). I m I'm not reallyreferring to that kind of stuff.Gray:Mm hm. President:Frankly, I am referring to discipline of thehighest sensitivity involving what may bepolitical matters.Gray:Oh, I know. President:...partisan political matters. But I've gotto know, for example, what's going on, uh,that, uh, even, uh, now on occasion, uh,let's suppose something on the Pentagon Papers leaks out, uh, let us suppose there'sa leak to a certain member of the press. Igotta have a relationship here where you go out and do something and deny on a stack of Bibles.Gray:Right.President:Okay. Gray:Right. And I understand.President:You gotta get that 'cause I don't haveanybody else. I can't hire some asshole from the outside.Gray:No. No.Ehrlichman:The, the relationship is a self-serving onein a sense...February 16, 197318from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Gray:Uh huh.Ehrlichman:...and Hoover used to call...President:Assert. Ehrlichman:And say, uh, we&#8482;ve picked up something hereand, uh,RESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;President:We knew, for example, let me tell you thatRESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;and so Hoover got us theinformation.Ehrlichman:Very helpful to us to know. Gray:Mm hmm.President:See what I mean?Gray:Mm hmm.President:RESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;Gray:Mm hmm.President:See? That's the kind of thing that we'vejust gotta know.Ehrlichman:And, and... President:We live in a dangerous world.Gray:Oh, I know that.President:And, uh... Ehrlichman:That's the enormously valuable part of thisrelationship...President:Yeah. Ehrlichman:...for us.February 16, 197319from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m. President:That's the kind of thing where you don&#8482;twant to have that done by Felt or whoever isdown the line. I mean you just, if you haveto identify it, by, you sayRESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;Gray:Well, just like I was telling Chief(unintelligible)...President:RESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;Gray:Yes sir.President:...may be -- you it's that sort of,-. thingthat --Hoover, of course, was a great cops and armed robbers guy in through the wholeera. He was overly suspicious, actually.But that helped a bit, becaause as a result, he ha, -- he got us information, which is extremely helpful, because you see, thesepast four years have not been an easy --we've had almost the entire bureaucracy, including many in Defense who were opposed to what we were doing in Vietnam, opposed toCambodia, opposed to Laos, opposed to May8th, it worked, and of course when the whole time for the December bombing, uh, we, uh,--and incidentally, most of the White Housestaff was against it. Uh, they didn't go out and yap about it but they were against it. I understand that. My point is thatwith the media's against you, with thebureaucracy against you, uh, with the professors, uh, with the church people andthe rest, let alone the Congress, it's ahard damn fight. Now at the present time, we've, uh, we've come through with that big issue, uh, come through rather well, and wehave some allies from dif -- unexpectedsources driving the goddamned media right up the wall. This POW (unintelligible)(unintelligible) well--Gray:Um hmm. President:Let me tell you, there were times an-an-and(stuttering) and, and, Lyndon Johnson toldme this same thing, when I felt that theonlyFebruary 16, 197320from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:person in this goddamned government who(cont.)was standing with me was Edgar Hoover. Hewas the only one.Grav:Well, I was sure standing there with you allthe way through it.President:I'm sure of that, I'm sure of that. Nowwhat did I mean (unintelligible). Now I don't mean Just coming in and saying "Nowlook Mr. President you're doin' great."Gray:No, no. President:He would often do that. But the point wasthat he would break his ass if lie sawsomething that was wrong, being done, if somebody was pissing on us, I mean, leaks,Gray:Mm hmm.President:...uh, that sort of thing. Not, notinterfering with the rights of the press, not interfering with the, you know, the, you know all that crap.Gray:Right, right.President:The thing is, the thing is that, that inyour case -- you see, the difficulty with,having someone, who's a, who is basically,as you are, a Nixon loyalist, and a friend, first of all they're gonna raise all kinds of (unintelligible) about that.Gray:Sure, oh I know it.President:Second, a Nixon loyalist and a friend feelsgenerally, and I've found this to be true ofhalf the Cabinet --he's gotta go, or bendover backwards to prove that he's neutral.Gray:Hm. President:We can't have that. Publicly you must dothat. Publicly. But, privately what you'vegot to do is to do like Hoover. Now, theFebruary 16, 197321from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:reason Hoover's relation with me- was so(cont.)close, even closer than with Johnson, eventhough he saw Johnson more often, was that westarted work in the Hiss case. He knew, that,uh, he could trust me, I knew I could trust him and as a result, he told me things that,uh, like this wiretap he told me about.(Unintelligible) Understand. My purpose inchecking this wiretap business is not to putit out. I don't intend to put it out. But Idamn well want to know who did it. See what Imean? I want to know who the Bureau to use and, and I want it know, should we it, seethen you may find that whoever&#8482;s the guiltyone will put out the story...Gray:Um hmm.President...and, that, uh, that, uh, he did and that,uh, will be useful. We'd like to know suchthings, that's the whole point. Not tojust... Of course, Johnson should not havehave done that.Gray:No question about it.President:Absolutely should not have wiretapped or,either the plane or the phones. The phoneswere done for sure, we, even De Loach hasadmitted that. But the planes, he denies now,Hoover told the plane, the cabin on my planefor the last two weeks of the campaign, they put it on the basis of Madame Chennault orsome goddamn thing were tapped. What the helldo you think happened then? Every damn thingwe had we didn't have any discussions about,political discussion, went to Johnson and youknow what the hell he did with them, gave &#8218;emto Humphrey.Gray:Humphrey. Sure.President:That kind of a game is a hell of a game. Gray:We could get, we could get positive evidenceof that, we could nail Deke on that becauseI'm sure, from what checking I've done on thisother thing that it came through Deke.February 16, 197322from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:We just want to he sure. We want to knowwho did it, you know. Well let me say this,the, the the main thing, the main point is that, uh, as I said, the uh, the, I thinkit's gonna be a bloody confirmation...Gray:Oh, I do, too. President:I think, all right, I think, uh, we justwanted you to know that if, if you do gothrough it, you've got to be prepared totake the heat and get bloodied up. But if you do go through a bloody one, you do gothrough a bloody confirmation let's rememberthat you're probably going to be in probably for just four years.Gray:That's right.President:And they're gonna throw you out and thenlet's do some good for the country. As you know, I would never ask the Director of the Bureau to do anything that was wrong, Imean, but I am certainly going to have toask the Director of the Bureau at times to do things that are going to protect thesecurity of this country...Gray:No problem. President:...this country, this, this bureaucracy,Pat, you know this, you known this Radfordone, too, it's crawling with, Pat, at best,at best unloyal people and at worst treasonable people.Gray:Treasonable people.President:We have got to get them, break them. Gray:Right, I know that. I agree. President:The way to get them is through you. See?Gray:I agree. I have no problems with that.President:We have to pick up people, some peopleThat's the price of--February 16, 197323from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Gray:I would like to. I wish the one on Wittenwould have stuck -- the informant.President:Witten -- Oh, Christ, that, I'm not concerned.Gray:Small potatoes.President:It isn't the press that bothers me, it's thepeople within the bureaucracy that bother me.Those are the ones that there's no excuse forleaks, right? So, we, I think, I think, underthe circumstances., that, uh, it seems to mejust, I've asked these questions only to bethe devil's advocate, this morning, uh, Ithink that. uh, if you, you gotta make the decision, if you've got the health, if you'vegot the uh, the, the, uh, desire, uh, and alsoif you can, if you feel that you can have a,the kind of a relationship that we had withHoover, which, of course, we can't, weshouldn't have had up to this point.Gray:No.President:And you can't have it (unintelligible) Well,except, from the moment you're nominated, I think you've gotta start crackin' the whip,having in mind the fact, having in mind thefact that, uh, always, that you don't wantcrack any whips that are gonna force somebastard to go out and testify against yournomination.Gray:That's right. That's the thing. President:So you've gotta be careful. But the momentyou're confirmed then I think we've got tohave the kind of relationship we had withHoover. We had, I, on the other hand, we had,we knew everything because I knew everybodyand they were supporting me. But then I thinkwe've got to do that you've got to watcheverything around the world, in your own shop,watch the papers and see (unintelligible) and when you think something's not right oh, forexample, for Christ's sake, you can tailpeople, you know, from time to time.February 16, 197324from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Gray:Sure. Sure.President:Suppose we've got some jackass, in the StateDepartment some assistant to the Secretary as we know is a little off, so you tail him.Gray:Sure, we can launch an --President:Right. You tail him because you're lookingfor theRESTRICTED-&#64257;B&#64258;right?Because you're doing it for his protection.Gray:That's right.President:That's the way Hoover did it. Gray:Sure, and those things can be done, can be done easily and, uh, can be done perfectly on the record, just like this thing was done here on...President:Well, we think of, uh, I think uh, think uh, I've talked, uh, I've, we've had the Court keep this very closely held, a major investment in it, John, uh, we know that the bloody uh, I one of the reasons, I'd say, as far as the Watergate, I'd rather throw it all out there and not be defensive. The other side of the coin is, we don't quite do this thing (unintelligible) they'regonna call you in on it.Gray:That's right. Sure. President:If, personal, hotter and hotter temper--TheErvin Committee will call you in.Gray:Sure. President:uh, so, uh, so that's the feeling we have. Now the question is, is to I guess you and John'll work that out, if, as to how and, when the announcement should be made.Ehrlichman:Yeah.February 16, 197325from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.President:How're your relations with Eastland?Gray:Very good. And was--President:Is he for you? Gray:Very good, yes, I'm positive of that.President:Yeah. That's very important. Should--whoelse should be informed? Hruska, at least, Hruska?Ehrlichman:Well we've haven't told the Attorney General yet.(Laughter)President:Well hell the Attorney General, the AttorneyGeneral will support that.Ehrlichman:There's no question about that. Yes. President:Well, well, let us talk to him. Ehrlichman:We, I think we can get most of theclearances uh, uh, I don't know whereEastland is at the moment.President:Do you want me to tell him, er Pat, do youwant me to tell the Attorney General?Ehrlichman:I think that'd be good.President:I'll tell him today. Gray:All right.President:So then what, when will we announce though,I want to get it done -- what do you mean clearances?Ehrlichman:Well, just this idea of contactingEastland., and uh, uh Hruska...and uh, uh, Idon&#8482;t' know who else gets well (unintelligible) I imagine they'd be theonly two.Gray:That'd be (unintelligible)February 16, 197326from 9:08 - 9:39 a.m.Ehrlichman:(unintelligible) the AppropriationsSubcommittee, uh.Gray:Probably John Rooney's people and the Senateside, too.President:Well, why don't you -- Kleindienst will becoming to the Cabinet meeting, could you, and uh, could you and Pat meet now and work out that thing?Ehrlichman:Sure.President:Because I want, time is of the essence. I'dlike to get this done like by today.Ehrlichman:All right. Yeah.President:We've got to move (unintelligible) thismotion's gonna leak. This damn Gray's a leaker. (Laughs)Gray:Yes I am, Mr. President.President:(Laughs) (Unintelligible) Gray:Nixon loyalist. (unintelligible) You'regoddamn right I am.President:Congratulations.