TRANSCRIPT OF RECORDING OF A MEETING AMONGTHE PRESIDENT, JOHN DEAN, AND H.R. HALDEMANIN THE OVAL OFFICE ON MARCH 17, 1973 FROM1:25 PM to 2:10 PMTRANSCRIPT OF RECORDING AMONG THE PRESIDENT, JOHN DEAN ANDH.R. HALDEMAN IN THE OVAL OFFICE ON MARCH 17, 1973 FROM1:25 PM to 2:10 PMBackground noises dragging noises on desk.PRESIDENT:Well, I was wondering what your latestdevelopments were. -Do you, ah, plan tokeep your boys all hopping around?DEAN:Well, hopefully. Uh, Dick Moore and I aregonna work in this afternoon and today.PRESIDENT:Where do you live?DEAN:Pardon?PRESIDENT:Where do you live, are you staying? DEAN:Over in Covell.PRESIDENT:Covell...DEAN:Well, to work over in my office. It'spretty quiet around here today.PRESIDENT:Anytime that you need to (unintelligible)Camp David place is very conducive to thatkind of awful work (unintelligible).DEAN:I think that might be a good thing. Imentioned that to Mitchell yesterday, that,ah, we probably need a good sitdown, kickthis thing around session. Ah, I would say that as a result of your press conferencethat the forward momentum that was going andbuilding stopped, and, and, that it, it fluctuated and again we're, in this breeding space." Uh, the press this morning isdifferent, for example, it says the, uh, anaccord has been reached. The Post is evenwilling to say that, uh, as far as theinformation being provided. It couldn't Iuh, try to find something nasty to say but they, they realized that it was a cooperative effort, uh (coughs) what we haveto do is be in a good posture, uh, come theopening gun on Ervin's hearings. It's, it's always been-to me the most troublesome thingis that if he were gonna be non-biased,MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM2DEAN:if he were gonna be non-partisan, if he were(Continued)gonna be fair and just, and the judge helikes to believe he is, ninety per cent ofhis hearings would be held in executivesession...PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:...rather than...PRESIDENT:And also the ten per cent of them or so,(unintelligible).DEAN:That's right. That's right. Uh, what I'vebeen trying to conceive of is, is some waythat Ervin himself could come to that position. If he did, he would be harminginnocent people, but he will be draggingpeople in to things that, uh -It's like really dragging them in, but that's the name of the game in the city and he's gonna loveto play it.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) hark back to the Hisscase'. We did that on the Hiss case.DEAN:You went into executive?PRESIDENT:...the first confrontation, between I, we,we, we interviewed, we took, uh, after, uh, after, uh, Chambers, uh, Chambers went onand called himself. and tried to challengeit.DEAN:Um hum. PRESIDENT:Hiss went on and denied it. Then afterthat, I, ah, executive session with Chambersalone, for a couple of hours (unintelligible) executive session, and Hissalone. And then two together in New York ina hotel room.DEAN:And that was private also, huh? PRESIDENT:Executive. And then only after theexecutive, would we go public.DEAN:Well, that, you know, that would be the fairway for Ervin to play it. (unintelligible)go public. Ah...MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM3PRESIDENT:Yeah. Well, anyway, that's a possibility, ah.The thing I guess you've got to figure, is towhether you and Moore, perhaps evenindividually or, uh (unintelligible)collectively (unintelligible) collectivelyin-writing a paper, and say that, uh-and sit down and write what I would call a general, avery general statement that would be the --Senator Ervin. I would say Senator, you'd beinterested to know what the hell we got here.Here, here's my point, ah, ah, the ah, that'sone way. The other way would be to, ah, putdown the, the, ar--course the fact that it's being done. The point that I made is this: wedon't want to be in position of Dean and theWhite House, you and Dean, etc. are acting asthe President's counsel to forward himinformation on the basis of it's confidential.You might just say now I can't say that thisis all, everything, but it's everything weknow. We can say basically (noise-banging ondesk)(unintelligible) in that sense, based on what we know (unintelligible) investigation(unintelligible) was not involved, or if hewas this is all he knows. Ah, Chapin--this iswhat he knows and I'd go in to Chapin andSegretti and just lay it all out there.(unintelligible) And, ah, Colson, you knowwhat I mean?DEAN:um hum.PRESIDENT:And, ah, and, or without going into it youcould say, no one on the White House staff isinvolved, so forth and so on. This may befact those kind of (unintelligible)statements. What I am getting at is that themoment that you get it too specific, and Irealize that, they're gonna say why did youwithhold something, that you could simply say here are the conclusions we have reached basedon your evaluation of the information thatcame to your attention. They got a chance tolook at all the other, we want to be ashelpful as we can. Here's what we'veconcluded and we welcome you to review it.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM4DEAN:You, ah, you've raised something that, uhlet me just take you one step further. It might be a very interesting approach. Ah,if Ervin were to be called down here, and (coughs) and given sworn statements that were given to you, that's after I haveprepared my report on Haldeman, Ehrlichman,Colson, Dean, everybodyPRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:they stated to the degree of their knowledgenow what, what would be in there that wouldembarrassing politicallyand you might put Ervin on the spot --is--'cause I don't thinkhe would want to embarrass for the sake ofembarrassment alone -is that, that there was knowledge that there was an intelligence operation in place.PRESIDENT:I say that?DEAN:But no knowledge that these people weregoing go do something criminal.PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:And to the contrary, Mr. President, effortsby the White House to cut off these things that would be illegal.PRESIDENT:Oh, as a matter of fact as you point out,you could make some self-serving statements all over that I had put and uh, I had given instructions to the (unintelligible) he wasto pass on to the campaign committee, I didnot see them at that point, there was to be no acting, there was to be no violence, thatth-,th-,th-,th-,th-,th-we expected oursto be, we had to get the intelligence on it, from the standpoint of security, et cetera.DEAN:Hum.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) prepared--put that wholething out, put out the list on the seamy record of what we expected in San Diego,what we expected there and there's what wewere trying to get at through intelligence et cetera, you know what I mean.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM5DEAN:um hum.PRESIDENT:But point out that, ah, ah, you could justsay here is some sworn statements signed by(unintelligible) people that I've gotten from them I, it was for the record...DEAN:Um Hum.PRESIDENT:Want further information, you can ask forit.DEAN:The interesting thing is, in the sequence ofway things occurred, ah, I don't know ifanyone has ever (coughs) taken you through this. But the last involvement to myknowledge of the White House was when I cameback from a meeting...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) answers &#64257;I know nothingabout Watergate."DEAN:Right, well, ah...PRESIDENT:I stayed miles away from it so I didn't knoweven if there was a White House involvement.DEAN:Well, there was, ah, you know, there was apreliminary discussion of setting up anintelligence operation...PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...and the last, and the last...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) DEAN:All right. And the last phase of it... PRESIDENT:Phase of it was...DEAN:I came back from a meeting with Mitchell,Magruder and Liddy and told--after telling them that they couldn't discuss this infront of the Attorney General of the UnitedStates, came back and told Bob that if there's something like that going on, we've got to stay two miles away from it, tenmiles away from it, because itMARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM6DEAN:just is not right and we can't have any part(Continued)of it. Bob said I agree and we'll have nopart of it. That was where I thought it was-turned off and the next thing I heard was that, that was this, the breakin on June17th, which was...PRESIDENT(Unintelligible) DEAN:...over six months later... PRESIDENT:You heard discussion of that, but you didn'thear any discussion of bugging did you, inthat, your meetings? Or did you?DEAN:Yeah, I did. That what, ah, distressed mequite a bit.PRESIDENT:Oh you did. DEAN:Um hum. PRESIDENT:Who raised it? Liddy?DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Liddy at that point said we ought to do somebugging?DEAN:Right, Mitchell just sat there on his pipeand puffed and said nothing. He didn'tagree to it, and I, at the end of the meeting...PRESIDENT:Well, you won't need to say in yourstatement the bugging.DEAN:No. PRESIDENT:You could say that they were gonna engage inintelligence operations, you said the mainthing is that, ah, ah, it must be totally legal and that the laws and ethics and-soforth and so on. You came back and Bobsays, he says (unintelligible). You know what I mean?DEAN:Right.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM7PRESIDENT:I would think, make, I think you could makeself-serving God-damn statements(unintelligible).DEAN:The embarrassment for you would be that theWhite House knew that there was anintelligence operation going, ah...but--PRESIDENT:But, why, did you mean embarrassed? DEAN:All right. PRESIDENT:I think every, everybody, ah, everybody that(unintelligible) naive basis, who knows?Haldeman knows, right?DEAN:Right.PRESIDENT:And ofcourse, but You could be there ifyou justify it along the basis that...DEAN:We knew it was to be legal. PRESIDENT:Not only be legal but that it was totallynecessary because of the violence, the, ah,the demonstrations, ah, the heck--, the kind of activities that we knew were threatened againstus in our convention and in ourcampaign and in all of our appearances. Wehad to have intelligence and about what, they were gonna do that we could in turnissue instructions to (unintelligible) findout what they're doing, and, uh, something like that.DEAN:This is another point on not using the FBIfor political purposes either. Ah, while wewould collect normal demonstration intelligence, we needed specificintelligence as to were there concertedefforts by opposing political people to demonstrate, cause disruption, (coughs) get these peaceniks whipped up into a frenzy,and a like.PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:That's not, ah, that's not the function ofthe Bureau,MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM8PRESIDENT:You see, I've been thinking, I should say,for example, the matter was discussed as towhether or not; (unintelligible) the Bureau,ah, should be, ah, it was pointed out that in the 1964 elections, the Bureau was used(unintelligible).DEAN:um hum. PRESIDENT:Could you get that--the salt? DEAN:Um hum.PRESIDENT:You get my point?DEAN:Um hum. PRESIDENT:And that's, uh, uh, then Haldeman saidtinder no circumstances, or mention themwhatever they are, it all had to be done privately because the Bureau may not be involved in a partisan contest. We couldnot use the Bureau in this. You can use themagainst demonstrations. But for political character, the Bureau is never used. Which is true.DEAN:Um, but I...PRESIDENT:The Secret Service was used, but they-that'stheir--job.DEAN:...but that's their job...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) make it quiet there. DEAN:...but they weren't, ah, uh, they weren'tcollecting the same type, they were...PRESIDENT:Oh, no they were...DEAN:...threats and... PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)DEAN:...they were looking to see who was behindit or...MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM9PRESIDENT:What I'm getting at is, uh, you have got,you can put off all the self-serving men andthey in turn, the main thing is thePresident has then, you see, that basically clears the President frankly...DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)DEAN:That's got to be done, that's right.PRESIDENT:Where it I s got to be done. And then andfrankly, they've got the say: I did this,this, this and this and Chapin would have to(unintelligible). Agreed?DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:And he would say I had this andd-,d-.d-,d-,d but I had nothing to do-withthis...DEAN:No. PRESIDENT:...or this other thing--DEAN:It seems to me the way that you would, theway these would be handled publicly or you want to say or publicly out of external fromthe White House, uh, that you might well,just give these to Ervin and directly and say I want you to see...PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:...what I know...PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:And I think that you know, innocent peoplehere, who have committed no crime...MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM10PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:But to the contrary have tried to op-operatein the most proper...PRESIDENT:Yeah. That's right. DEAN:...way are gonna be maligned...PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:This is the truth. PRESIDENT:I want you to know this beforehand. DEAN:(Clears throat)PRESIDENT:I just want you to know this is all we know,all I know and this is a fact.DEAN:Um hum.PRESIDENT:And I hand it to him, and incidentally,wouldn't have Baker go along.DEAN:No, I, I'd, I would agree with that. PRESIDENT:You know, it's just a little shot across the(unintelligible).DEAN:Right. PRESIDENT:What do you think or (unintelligible) Baker,ya got any further intelligence about hisoperation? (Door closes)DEAN:Nothing, nothing affirmative that, uh,that's good at all.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:Sir. (unintelligible) view on this is thatthat, uh, he did talk to him yesterday, and ah, he said yesterday, which was(unintelligible) uh, that, he will say againon TV tomorrow, and will say (unintelligible) tax earnings if thePresident wants him to, he's trying to lockyou into the, into the picture, so that he isn't alone, in putting aside tax reform for trade and that that's where the thing hangsthat he says on that basis you do need tocall--from you-that someone else calling isn't going to do any good.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM11PRESIDENT:All right.HALDEMAN:That the question of the (clears throat) thesurtax, surcharge, he will not raise, hefeels that was answered by what happened in Paris and he is satisfied on that and willnot push that any more. He told Flaniganthat. The, ah, the (clears throat) scheduling of a bi-partisan meeting on, leadership meeting on trade they feel nowshould wait to April 10th when we get back.Mills will take this up on the 30th--and we send--it will not be up til the 30th.PRESIDENT:30th of April?HALDEMAN:Yeah. And so if we send it up on the loth'that's time enough.'PRESIDENT:Oh, they don't want the bi-partisan meeting.You see...HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:...Steve had a bi-partisan meeting on forthe 27th.HALDEMAN:Right.PRESIDENT:That's out then now. Right? HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:I changed it to the 29th. The meeting...HALDEMAN:Yup. (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:His point now is you don't really need it'cause&#352;that--we don't need to send it up tilthe 10th...PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:...and it's better to wait to send it upuntil we need (unintelligible)...MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM12PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Just...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN...basically, basically to say only, onlythat you agreed with him that the onlyreason he can interrupt his tax hearings forfor trade...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...is if the trade relates to the currentinternational crisis...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...and...PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah, yeah.HALDEMAN:...and our international stuff... PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...and you're assuring him that it does...PRESIDENT:Yeah, right.HALDEMAN:...that we'll have it up to him, uh, inearly April, uh, so that if he's to send it up (unintelligible) it will work out verywell, which he, he has agreed with Flaniganto do.PRESIDENT:Uh, has he talked to Flanigan?HALDEMAN:Yes, sir...PRESIDENT:All right. HALDEMAN:...as of yesterday. PRESIDENT:All right.HALDEMAN:And he says he will confirm that on(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:All right.HALDEMAN:That is his position.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM13Loud noises.PRESIDENT:Would you try Congressman Wilbur Mills ofArkansas? Go ahead.DEAN:If ah, (clears throat) it might be anaffront. to Baker, not to bring him in,since he is, ah...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). DEAN:...and, ah, try to, you know, get them bothon the...PRESIDENT:We&#8482;ll try to, ah, try to be, ah, spreadaround. I'm not gonna have a counsel.DEAN:No, oh Lord no, I would think, ah, at theend there's a lot of appeal just bringingSam Ervin alone in, ahPRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) That's my point. I mean... DEAN:And a lot of appeal, he is, ah...PRESIDENT:...He is, ah, basically, he is a(unintelligible) I can just call him down and say I'd informed Baker that, ah...DEAN:That's the way I think it would be better.PRESIDENT:That's, ah, I'd say now look, the Presidentwants to be (unintelligible) put it this way, he's had a talk with you, he wants tohave a talk with Ervin.DEAN:Um hum. PRESIDENT:Put it that way. DEAN:Um hum.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) say here it is. I said Iwant you to know that we cooperated and here's--I've asked for Dean to take swornaffidavits from everybody, they&#8482;re here.Then he'll say "will they appear.&#64258; Nope. Ah, "handwritten interrogatories.&#64258; Yes if he wants to go further, but...MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM14DEAN:Um hum.PRESIDENT:Well, well, "suppose I want to come down withmy counsel and question them?&#64258; No.DEAN:No. Written interrogatories, we've saidevery-these, these are honest, humble men whoare going under-oath, they're swearing to methis is the extent of their knowledge, ah...PRESIDENT:And they will, what, what, but on the otherhand, we're not saying that they haveadditional knowledge (phone rings) not as aresult of this, that we won't answer writteninterrogatories.(Non-pertinent telephone conversation.) (Loud noises.)PRESIDENT:Ah, Bob...go on, uh.DEAN:Well I think that, ah...PRESIDENT:Yes.DEAN:...this would be very disarming also for Ervinyou know, if he came down here and had alittle -- with you...PRESIDENT:I think when you see him alone, it is betterthan having--Baker's a little whipper-snapper, he'll try to make his point. I've seen Baker.DEAN:I tell you, for example, something that cameback on, fed back through the Attorney Generaland the Attorney General wanted to talk to youabout, but I don't know if it's necessary ornot. Ah, Baker said that, raised withKleindienst, in their private meeting, after he met with both Ervin and Baker-He said, uh,I want to talk to you, ah, about this '68.bugging incident, which the, ah, the Presidentmentioned to me, when I met with him. This isBaker speaking to Kleindienst, and Kleindienstsaid well ah, I said I wanted to talk to youabout that also because (clears throat)Kleindienst obviously knows that DeLoach isinvolved. Kleindienst and DeLoach are good friends.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM15PRESIDENT:Well, he, ah, I don't know whether we've hadto buy a pig in a poke or not(unintelligible). He wants, ah, he wantsGeorge to testify on, ah--the way he will doit-They'll recess on the 19th. Held likeGeorge to testify on the taxes on the 30th.HALDEMAN:Taxes?PRESIDENT:That's no problem. George is supposed to beready and I've...HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:and I've just got that thing out there. Andso, George, you know -Then he says he willthen set aside, he will announce the 19th that because the President has indicated that thetrade is so urgent. He will set aside the taxhearing after George testifies. See he getsthat out there. And the following day,Tuesday, he will have the trade legislationbrought (unintelligible) and I suggested thatthe, be the by-product for a bipartisanmeeting. He suggests that it be in theafternoon, a Monday, which might not be a bad idea, rather than Tuesday morning, 'cause, youknow, they have to go back on the testimony,so, so ah, ah, we could do that, or I told himhe could have a, an eight o'clock in themorning, in other words, have it at eighto'clock in the morning.HALDEMAN:He must wait clear till the thirtieth though? PRESIDENT:Always the thirtieth, yeah.HALDEMAN:'Cause, our idea was to have the bi-partisanmeeting. He sent the legislation up on the10th.PRESIDENT:10th of what?HALDEMAN:April. That's fine.PRESIDENT:He's moving it to the first. He wants, hewants the bi-partisan meeting when thelegislation goes out so he's asking the legislation, so the boys are gonna have to beready on the first (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:The first of April?MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM16PRESIDENT:The first of May.HALDEMAN:Yeah, we were gonna send the legislation upthe 10th of April so that he would have itfor three weeks before, two weeks before the, ah, let's see, three weeks before the,before they start to consider it.PRESIDENT:Oh. HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:Well let Flanigan, under, uh, uh, just say Imentioned this day, the first of May, isthat, ah, maybe we wanted the, ah, -- gosh let me think some more.HALDEMAN:Okay.PRESIDENT:Puts it off a little later than it ought be HALDEMAN:No. April 30th is what we were shooting on. PRESIDENT:For what?HALDEMAN:For him to start his hearings, that's whathe had said.PRESIDENT:Well, then he wants the bi-partisan meetingthen.HALDEMAN:That's fine. That's easier for most.'PRESIDENT:That does a little more time. HALDEMAN:Right.PRESIDENT:George has to be prepared for his taxproposal on the 30th.HALDEMAN:Okay. PRESIDENT:So what we really will need is to, ah, well,we all have a - we won't have a bi-partisanmeeting on the 10th. (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Okay, that's a deal.PRESIDENT:All right.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM17DEAN:The long and short of what I simply say thatI think that, ah, Kleindienst, would like toturn Baker off a little bit on looking intothe &#8218;68 thing and Baker wants to get some more facts on it. So (sighs) it's kind of ahiatus right there, and I don't know as, uh,Baker will go aboard unless Kleindienst assures him they have something to produce and I don't know if Kleindienst has anythingto produce.PRESIDENT:He won't produce if he has it. The questionis now what about Sullivan? Are you gonnaconvert him?DEAN:No, Sullivan, ah, is, ah, committed to haveme or have prepared for me in his own type written, ah, product, his list of all thehorribles that he is, ah...PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...been able to recollect. PRESIDENT:I want that, I want that for starter, ofcourse, nothing more.DEAN:I think so. PRESIDENT:You need it very much. I want it. Now, youwere saying too, ah, what really, ah, wherethe, this thing leads, I mean in terms of the vulnerabilities and so forth. It's your view the vulnerables are basically Mitchell,Colson, Haldeman, indirectly, possiblydirectly, and of course, the second level is, as far as the White House is concerned,Chapin.DEAN:And I'd say Dean, to a degree. PRESIDENT:You? Why? DEAN:Well, because I've been all over this thinglike a blanket.PRESIDENT:I know, I know, but you know all about it,but you didn't you were in it after the deedwas done.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM18DEAN:That's correct that I have noforeknowledge...PRESIDENT:Here's the whole point, here's the wholepoint. My point is that your problem is you, you have no problem. All the others thathave participated in the God-damned thing,and therefore are potentially subject to criminal liability. You're not. That's the difference.DEAN:That's right.(Pause)PRESIDENT:And on that score, of course, we have toknow where we are.DEAN:And on... PRESIDENT:Everybody--Magruder I understand knows, toldsome people that Haldeman knows, told otherpeople that, ah, Colson knows(unintelligible).DEAN:Oh Jeb, is ah, Jeb is a good man. But ifJeb ever sees himself sinking, he will reachout to grab everybody he can get hold of.PRESIDENT:Will he? DEAN:Yes, and I think the unfortunate thing is inthis whole thing, Jeb is the mostresponsible man for the whole incident.RESIDENT:(Unintelligible) DEAN:Well, let me tell you, one, after ithappened and on, on Monday, I, didn't takeme very long to put the pieces' together what had occurred, ah, I got a hold of Liddyand I said Gordon, I want to know who in theWhite House is involved in this and he said, John, nobody is involved or has knowledge, that I know of. Ah, that we were going inor the like, with one exception and it was alower level person.PRESIDENT:Strachan.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM19DEAN:Strachan. Ah, he said I don't really knowif he, how much he knew, and I said well whyin the hell did this happen, and he saidMagruder pushed me without mercy to go in there. Magruder said I had to go in there.He had to do this...PRESIDENT:Who pushed Magruder? DEAN:That's... PRESIDENT:Colson?DEAN:That's -- that what Jeb...PRESIDENT:Colson, did Colson push Magruder though? DEAN:Now that's where there's two stories.PRESIDENT:That's my point, I don't, I think, I-Colsoncan push, but he didn't know Magruder that well.DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:And had very damn little confidence in him.Uh...DEAN:Right. PRESIDENT:...So maybe that one can come from here. Isthat your point?DEAN:That's, ah, that's... PRESIDENT:Think Haldeman pushed him?DEAN:Well a, I think what happened is that onsort of a tickler...PRESIDENT:I can't believe Haldeman would pushMagruder.DEAN:No, I don't think happened.PRESIDENT:I don't think (unintelligible) Maybe Chapindid.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM20DEAN:No, I think Strachan did. Because Strachanjust had it on his tickler, he was-supposedto be gathering intelligence and talking toJeb and saying what, where is it and why isn't it coming in? You haven't produced it.PRESIDENT:Intelligence problems? What were theyworried about? They worried about, as I understand it, the San Diego demonstrations. I'm too sure of, but I guess everybodyaround here except me worried about them.DEAN:Well, I, I don't know. PRESIDENT:Well demonstrations, what else...DEAN:I think...PRESIDENT:Mitchell though that they would be worriedabout, were secret, I mean, the ten million dollars, what the hell difference did thatmake.DEAN:I can't understand why they decided to go inD N C. That absolutely mystifies me as to what-anybody's been around the NationalCommittee knows there's nothing there.PRESIDENT:Well, the point is they're trying to seewhat the (unintelligible) developed in termsof the...DEAN:So that's the, that's the... PRESIDENT:And how they, now Magruder puts the heat onsomebody else, you know, the way you seethings, 'cause I understand it, is a, that,possibly heard a friend Of mine, that, ah- Sloan, Sloan starts pissing on Magruder andthen Magruder starts pissing on, on, whoeven Haldeman...DEAN:No, no it's, it's, if... PRESIDENT:I don't see...MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM21DEAN:...if, if somebody out of here were to startsaying, or say, all right, Jeb, you'regonna, you're, you're gonna take the heat onthis ah...PRESIDENT:Somebody down here's gonna say that?DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:Can't do that. DEAN:No. PRESIDENT:I think what you've got to do, to the extentthat you can, John, is cut her off at thepass. And you cut off at the pass. Liddy and his bunch just did this as part of theirjob.DEAN:They were out on a lark. They went beyondany assignment they ever had.PRESIDENT:Now on the Segretti thing, I think you'vejust got to - Chapin and all of them havejust got to take the heat. Look, you've got to admit the facts, John, and...DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:And that's our - and that's that. AndKalmbach paid him. And paid a lot of people. I, I just think on Segretti, nomatter how bad it is-It, isn't nearly as badas people think it was. Espionage, sabotage, shit.DEAN:The intent, when Segretti was hired, wasnothing evil, nothing vicious, nothing bad,nothing. Not espionage, not sabotage. It was pranksterism that got out of hand,it-and we don't know that. And I think wecan lay our story out there. Ah, I have no problem with the Segretti thing. It's just not that serious. The, ah, ah, the otherpotential problem, ah, is Ehrlichman's andthat is...MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM22PRESIDENT:In connection with Hunt?DEAN:In connection with Hunt and Liddy both.PRESIDENT:They worked for him?DEAN:They -- these fellows had to be some idiots,as we've learned after the fact. They wentout and went into Dr. Ellsberg's doctor'soffice and they had, they were geared up with all this CIA equipment, cameras and the like. Well, they turned the stuff backinto the CIA some point in time and left filmin the camera. Ah, CIA has not put this together, and they don't know what it allmeans right now. Butit wouldn't takea very sharp investigator very long because you've got pictures in the CIA files that they had to turn over to Justice.PRESIDENT:What in the world, what in the name of Godwas Ehrlichmah having something (unintelligible) in the Ellsberg?DEAN:They were trying to - this was a part of ah,an operation that, ah - in connection withthe Pentagon papers. They were- the whole thing -- and they wanted to getEllsberg's psychiatric records for somereason.PRESIDENT:Why? DEAN:I don't know.PRESIDENT:This is the first I ever heard of this. I, I(unintelligible)DEAN:Ah...PRESIDENT:...care about Ellsberg was not our problem.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Jesus Christ.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM2DEAN:Well, anyway, it, it, you know, it was underan Ehrlichman structure maybe John didn'tever know. I've never asked him if he knew.I didn't want to know.PRESIDENT:I can't see that getting into, into thishearing.DEAN:Well, look. Here's-no, here's the way itcan come up.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:In the CIA's files which they --which theCommittee is asking for -- in the material they turned over the Department ofJustice...PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...there are all the materials relating toHunt. In there are these pictures which theCIA developed and they've got Gordon Liddystandingproud as punch outside this doctor's office with his name on it. And it's this material, it's not going to takevery long for an investigator to go back andsay, why would this somebody be at the doctor's office, and they'd find out thatthere was a break-in at the doctor's office,and then you'd find Liddy on the staff, and then you'd start working it back. I don't think they'll ever reach that point.PRESIDENT:Can't be.DEAN:This was way... PRESIDENT:It's irrelevant.DEAN:It's irrelevant. Right.PRESIDENT:That's the point. That's where -- that'swhere -- where, ah, Ervin's rules of relevancy--I'd like to know--Now what thehell has this got to do with it?DEAN:It has nothing as a lot of these things thatthey could stumble along into, ah, isirrelevant.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM24PRESIDENT:And of course, Colson, apparently wasworking with Hunt on it. ITT. That sillywoman out of there. Hunt went out fordisguises and doctors and what.DEAN:He had some red wig on, and, and funnyglasses and went out and interviewed her,ah, but that's nothing, you know, there's nothing there, he didn't do anything illegal there. And the other, the other thing thatcould come up that will relate to John and,ah, could relate to me, also - it's not illegal, ah--I could, ah--kind ofinteresting if it ever occurred Right afterChappaquiddick, John had a man dispatched up there, this New York City detective...PRESIDENTOh, yeah, I heard about that.DEAN:...Yeah, went...PRESIDENT:(unintelligible) DEAN:...two years he was on this thing and heknows more about how Teddy Kennedy lied hisway through that and closed that down thanany living human being.PRESIDENT:So we were checking on him.DEAN:And he was, he was paid by Kalmbach.Kalmbach's bank records indicate these payments.PRESIDENT:If they find those records?DEAN:If they, if they find those records.PRESIDENT:He doesn't know those recordsexist. DEAN:Well hopefully, hopefully, we, ah, you know.PRESIDENT:Some of those would be...DEAN:...privileged. Because, well, he's anattorney, why...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) their records(unintelligible).DEAN:That's right.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM25PRESIDENT:Well (loud noisesunintelligible) we'vegot to make some move, some move though to,ah, act before this all begins, begins tocome out, so that I appear at least to be making a statement. I'm sorry...DEAN:Well, just if you turn them over to thechairman of the Committee.PRESIDENT:Now, I'd simply-say now look, I, I requiredfrom every member of my staff a swornstatement, here's one from here, here's onefrom here, here, here. Now, so we know that's the basis of my statement. Now go toit. Because if there's something else youwant to find out (unintelligible)DEAN:That's good. That's great. PRESIDENT:The sworn statement, Bob, is much better, bythat rather than giving a statement by Dean.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Dean, Dean (unintelligible) sworn statementfrom each one, Bob.DEAN:And I could find nothing in the FBI or?PRESIDENT:Yeah. (unintelligible) a very forthcomingstatement in which he had admitted the damnthing about Segretti. I don't think heshould fart around about it a bit. You know, you gotta give'em some meat, so give 'em Chapin. They're gonna hurt him. Idon't want to hurt him. (Unintelligible).DEAN:(Unintelligible) you know, the damage isgonna be done.HALDEMAN:It's already done anyway.PRESIDENT:It's gonna be done anyway.MARCH 17, 1973 FROM 1:25 PM TO 2:10 PM26DEAN:Better for him to be forthcoming.PRESIDENT:That's right. Right.HALDEMAN:Run that by Moore, er...DEAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:See you later.DEAN:Yes, sir.PRESIDENT:Fine.(Loud noises.)