TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETINGBETWEEN THE PRESIDENT AND H.R. HALDEMAN INTHE OVAL OFFICE, ON MARCH 20, 1973, FROM6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING BETWEEN THEPRESIDENT AND H.R. HALDEMAN, IN THE OVAL OFFICE, MARCH 20,1973, FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.PRESIDENT:Well, I'm trying to figure out withEhrlichman what the strategy should be onthis, uh, Watergate (unintelligible) the real problem here.HALDEMAN:I think John is pretty much out of touch asI am, now. We kind of stayed away from it.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). He has a feeling which ofcourse is mine, too, and, uh, I believe it.(Pause) Trouble is...HALDEMAN:&#8211;that's the key, if we could just- PRESIDENT:Dean andMoore is but you can't find anyway to have any kind of a statement made(unintelligible) that they think doesn't open up too many other problems. Of course, they're concerned about what will happenwhen the Judge sentences. (Unintelligible) well-HALDEMAN:Sentencing is that this week? PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:Right.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). HALDEMAN:That's the thing, there's just so goddamnedmany factors and (unintelligible) people.PRESIDENT:And that's what Dean HALDEMAN:Sure. PRESIDENT:McCord didn't want to go to jail(unintelligible) jail sentence(unintelligible) decided to talk. I said, "What the hell's he doing?(Pause)HALDEMAN:McCord? (Pause) He would have a lot onMitchell. (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:He worked for Mitchell? I guess Mitchell and(unintelligible) are trying mess with GrandJury (unintelligible) (Pause) U.S. Attorney (unintelligible) (Pause)MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.2PRESIDENT:Kleindienst always talks so very tough.(Continued)(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:You sure of that? PRESIDENT:He and Mitchell sure weren't very strong (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:That's kind of ironic when his own, his own U.S.Attorney comes back to bug him.PRESIDENT:Yeah. (Pause) I told John one thing which I amconvinced of, we've got to get somethings thathave got to be said (unintelligible) around there.Something that has got to be said. (Unintelligible) you can't sit in there thinking everybody down here is shutting up. (unintelligible) That's the precedent I'm afraid (unintelligible). Don't you think that's true to the circumstances?HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) terribly sensitive about thegoddamned thing.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:We should do something (unintelligible). Thequestion is what (unintelligible) tell your own people.HALDEMAN:You've got to answer to people. PRESIDENT:Say that they don't want to&#8211;HALDEMAN:Does Dean feel we can't do that even to our ownpeople? Well, yeah, you can't because then if they go out and say that's all there is then one more thing comes, then you're, you're even more sunk.PRESIDENT:Well, I'm not so sure. HALDEMAN:At least that's what's worried John all along. Howdo you get&#8211;PRESIDENT:That's what worries me more. But, I'm not so sure that what Dean could make an oral statement to the Cabinet. An oral statement (unintelligible) reported on the (unintelligible) lay a few things to rest. I didn't do this, I didn't do that, da da da da, da da da da, da da da.da, da da da da. Haldeman didn't do this, Ehrlichman didn't do that. Colson didn't do that. (Unintelligible) see?MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.3PRESIDENT:That's what I really think needs to be --uh,(Continued)they need to hear it from somebody thatbasically that's what &#338; they&#8482;ve got to know that I have been told that, that's really what it gets down to. Rather than let the feeling, the uneasy feeling that somehow maybe the WhiteHouse staff is keeping things from me that Idon't know or something we're afraid to have the people talk about. Well, isn't that really all there is (unintelligible) we don't want to talk about up there, but the god-damned Klieg lights. It isn't that we are afraid of facts, wecertainly are afraid of publicity.HALDEMAN:Well, I guess you've gone through that mess. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:Well, you know go back to that&#8211; PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:I guess we have and it would be pretty badbecause of the way (pause) everybody wants togo. (Pause)PRESIDENT:When that decision was made you know I raisedgrave questions about it, I said I didn't want it to be there (unintelligible) daily spectacle with television cameras and press. ^Ziegler (unintelligible)HALDEMAN:But you're gonna have that daily spectaclePRESIDENT:I think you are (unintelligible) I think youare, maybe the point is that makes the papers that we've got a big fish up there.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:They say that's what made the McCarthy hearings.HALDEMAN:And you never know what any of the big fish willdo when they get up there and then we all said we want to go up and all that, but if they. lob one in you're not expecting you don't know what how good a witness he'll be.PRESIDENT:It's a tough goddamned thing (unintelligible)HALDEMAN:...when you get...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) goddamned thing. That's right.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.4HALDEMAN:And then when you get (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:You don't there's a thing that I'm franklyconcerned about more than I am about what they might reveal in this version. I don't want (unintelligible) get up there in front of that goddamned committee and gear their question onthe log out of somewhere they know something.HALDEMAN:Well, see the thing is... PRESIDENT:the perjury bit. HALDEMAN:I know, yeah, but see, they re protecting thewrong people.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:...'cause think people who are gonna go forperjury already have and will do it again and are going to be up there anyway.PRESIDENT:You mean like Magruder? HALDEMAN:Well, I guess Magruder comes under your, yournew current executive privilege rules. He was on the White House staff, too.PRESIDENT:Magruder was?HALDEMAN:Well, not at the time of the incident. That'sright. So, so, that doesn't count you know. That's right.PRESIDENT:That son-of-a-bitch. HALDEMAN:No, he wasn't. He was, he was over theCommittee and he was White House at one point,but obviously he can't exercise privilege on &#338;PRESIDENT:after he leaves, PRESIDENTafter he leaves while he was here AND HALDEMAN:(unintelligible) HALDEMAN:So that would cover Chapin, who would not coverMagruder. Cover Colson, but would not coverHoward Hunt. (Pause) Cover Dean, but would not cover Liddy. (Unintelligible) (Pause)PRESIDENT:our position... (Pause) HALDEMAN:Well the other, uh, would cover Strachan. Iknow they&#8482;re. concerned about Strachan.(Unintelligible)(20 second Pause)MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.5PRESIDENT:You see I wondered whether just as well(unintelligible) beware (Pause).HALDEMAN:You see, the problem with Strachan they're worriedabout Strachan getting getting into the White House. I don't think that's a problem because Strachan has no, as I understand it, no criminal thing. Because he wasn't directing it, he was simply aware of what was going on. But if he doesn't perjure himself and he has to answer onawareness he can't take the 5th because he doesn'thave any incrimination. He, he does have a problem, because I think he knows wh-what happened over there. That's where he gets into trouble.PRESIDENT:But hasn't he already been questioned? HALDEMAN:Yeah, but but, don't think he answered he forgot,and Strachan, from what Dean told me, Strachan said he just didn't know that. He wasn't very wellquestioned and he's only been questioned by the FBIand they, they only questioned him on Segretti.PRESIDENT:Wonder why they're question, questioning him atall. I don't understand.HALDEMAN:Well, it never occurred to him, I don't think andI'm not sure it ever would, unless someone accidentally asked him a question. I'm not sure how much he knows about Watergate anyway, but fromwhat Dean tells me, I think he knew a fair amount.'Cause I think he knew see, Strachan's job was to know, was to keep on top of everything that was, going on.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Then Magruder knows that's the point(unintelligible) who would tell that Strachan knew that's what I mean.HALDEMAN:Magruder might tell what Strachan knew yeah, butonly that he knew...PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:Not that he had no authority no, no &#338; uh... PRESIDENT:...participation... HALDEMAN:participation. He was an observer. (Pause) Thedanger you got there is that he probably, and I possibly, got reports on some of that stuff.PRESIDENT:Sure. I`m aware of that.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.6HALDEMAN:And if I did, I didn`t know it. But Strachan did know because he gave me, you know, stuff that thick and I never looked at it. On all campaigns, budgets, personnel things and everything else.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) Dean say he's discovered for us, of course, he didn't know what the hell theywere about. (Unintelligible) The main thing is don't get anybody up there on perjury where they can prove and sentence. (unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Strachan? I don't think (unintelligible) whatStrachan'll do is, he may go on contempt but notperjury. Contempt on refusal to remember.PRESIDENT:I don't think, he doesn't go at all. HALDEMAN:He goes on inability to remember. PRESIDENT:Well, he doesn't perjury charge, perjury chargeunless they charge him with a crime. Then he has to go down. Anybody who's charged with a crime has to go down. That's the Ad, Adams'question.HALDEMAN:Well, if that's the case, why the hell didn'tthey charge everybody with a crime on, on complicity or something.PRESIDENT:Can't do it. Won't stand up. (Pause) Justmake a, just making a charge is not enough-WhatI meant is-HALDEMAN: Yeah. PRESIDENT:I think it has to be... HALDEMAN:Be indicted (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:...evidence, get some evidence that ah, er...(Pause)HALDEMAN:God it's ridiculous.PRESIDENT:Oh! God! It really does. (Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:The irony and the stupidity of that whole thingis...MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.7PRESIDENT:But also, the credibility of, uh, stuff in thereof, uh, with a double standard.HALDEMAN:I know. PRESIDENT:It's hard to believe, uh I've just given up. Imean Colson was telling me that we've got all sorts of stuff on the Democratic(unintelligible) not a God damned thing not athing (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Really? PRESIDENT:That&#8482;s right. HALDEMAN:Well does Chuck's I guess Chuck's talked withDean (unintelligible) John Dean Chuck thinks hehas,PRESIDENT:Well, you know what I mean, stuff like that. HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) you would think that when they were doing all their stuff at the conventions and demonstrations. Christ even, Christ even the FBI should have investigated that. Zieglersays (unintelligible)HALDEMAN:They didn't-didn't did not. It was done ontheir behalf, but not at their direction and they can probably&#8211;(20 second pause)PRESIDENT:When you talk to Henry, let's put it in thenegative. I will simply say that I hadmentioned the fact that you and I that you would raise a point (unintelligible) significant risk we have to weigh (20 second unintelligible)HALDEMAN:He&#8482;ll probably feel that we can't talk. PRESIDENT:Is that right? Horse-feathers. So he told youhe should take a vacation.HALDEMAN:Oh, yeah. Every goddamned word and the way thathe did you know never even, uh, crossed my mind to raise any question with you because it was he did it in such a way that I you know if you had said if you had told him that you wantedto take time, said get a vacation (noise) wantedMARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.8HALDEMAN:to get away from the Democrats and I think he(Continued)did mention the idea of going to Acapulco (unintelligible) maybe at that point. I'll be darned.PRESIDENT:I know I didn't. I know I didn't. I thought hewas thinking of California. But I, he plannedthat he was going to stay out there and I said,"That's great. That's a good time to spend a couple of weeks." Palm Springs.HALDEMAN:Well, you're right, because that's what Ithought he was gonna do.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) I was so surprised when he wentback, I thought really if any paper had gotthrough this damn troop withdrawal (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:That is kind of surprising that... PRESIDENT:Yeah, I think his, HALDEMAN:I think that's his concern. PRESIDENT:Well, that's nice. Ehrlichman's point is well taken in one sense and he says really right nowwe&#8482;ve got to really put a (unintelligible). You're going to get you're going to get hung for it any-way, you might as well get the Goddamned hanging over with.HALDEMAN:You've (unintelligible) ahead of time. Thatmeans to say that does that?PRESIDENT:This is going to be done. HALDEMAN:Dean`s theory is that you don't you aren'tnecessarily going to get hung. It depends upon what you defined by hang. There's no question we're going to get smeared.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:There's no question that they're going to keepbuilding the innuendo that will lead into the White House and will be able to come to some proof.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:What they'll call proof consider proof on thebasis that, that uh oh, the line of reasoning they're using now, that Dwight Chapin wouldn't have done anything that I didn't know about it.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.9PRESIDENT:That's right. I understand.HALDEMAN:Or it might -that wasn't in my orders andcertainly Gordon Strachan did.PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:Uh that's only partly true, but it's a, it's a,sustainable assumption but that part we can,live with it and I I see all four of them. Now,I'd like to go out and have us go out now and hit if you take that part of the case and hit mine and admit. Say, say it's absolutely true I knew that Chapin was recruiting an old college friend of his to go out and run around doingDick Tuck stuff, which is absolutely true, I didknow. I did not know the guy's name. I did not know the guy. I did not know what he was going to do. I did not know what we were going to pay him. I did know that Chapin was going to authorize some payment to him to cover his expenses and, uh, his basic income.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:That he was going to work full time on this andwas going to try to recruit other college type guys to do this kind of stuff.PRESIDENT:Intelligence work (unintelligible)? HALDEMAN:Not really intelligence. 'Cause that wasn'twhat was talked about. See, he wasn't engagedin this at least I don't think he was engaged in espionage. He was engaged in, in...PRESIDENT:...tricks. HALDEMAN:Yeah, I think some of em got a little -that's aeuphemistic term for them -some of em cause hedid get a little far on the tricks. But theytalked about, when they talked about doing it, the kind of tricks that I said, for Christ's sake don't fool around with stuff like &#338; they were gonna cut cars, cut tires on press buses, you know and take the keys out of cars inmotorcades and that sort of stuff. I saidthat's ridiculous, it's childish and doesn't do us any good. So I...MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.10PRESIDENT: (Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:...What does do us some good is to have a guystanding around with a sign saying "McGovern, what about your illegitimate daughter" or something. I hope we never used that one.PRESIDENT:But, because we were ready to...HALDEMAN:Yeah. (Unintelligible) but, uh, so I knew. Theywere getting a guy and Chapin did do it with, with my concurrance and Strachan was a friend of the guy's too. I knew that. That I have no problem with saying.PRESIDENT:I understand (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:And, I don't think that hurts you.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Just say I did that. The problem is can't thetruth stop at the truth. Which that does or does the innuendo go so come then so hard on top of it that you can't turn it off.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) it goes to the truth -HALDEMAN:It goes to the Watergate or which it seems tome, we ought to be able to turn off, but the problem is the price of turning it off may hurt the people on Watergate side. At least, that's what they tell me. What bothers me is that I still think I'm being had in a sense for beingtarred in order to protect some other people.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah. HALDEMAN:I think Chapin is being far worse tarred inorder to protect other peoplePRESIDENT:Yeah. The people on the Watergate sideunfortunately are also our friends.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.11HALDEMAN:The people on the Watergate side are our friendsand there is far more seriousness if there this thing you can say was bad judgment on my part to let Chapin do this or I can say it was bad judgment on Chapin's part to let the guy go as far as he did, or Chapin can say it was badjudgment on Segretti`s part...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...to do some of the things he did. PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:That's, that's probably right. All the way upto, to maybe bad judgment on my part, but onWatergate it isn't a question of bad judgment.On Watergate it's a question and there it goes and, ultimately, it seems to me that's what they have got to focus on. And this who was it that was telling me that, uh, what or convinced they're going to go after this this is Ziegler's, Ziegler's theories based on the pressclub status convinced that what they're after isColson on criminal they think he's the highest guy they can get on criminal in the White House and Mitchell on the outside. Now, there ah the worst it isn't the worst you can get to is damn had out there.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Because if Mitchell was the authority. PRESIDENT:He's the Attorney General of the U.S. HALDEMAN:As Attorney General of the U.S. and... PRESIDENT:The President's campaign manager. That's prettygoddamned bad. That's damn near as bad as it isout here. Do you agree with this?HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:...problems... HALDEMAN:And their if you have... PRESIDENT:protect them to protect them...(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:then you have to then you start working your wayback down that chain again and, and maybe you can'tMARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.12HALDEMAN:turn it off somewhere and that's what John Dean(Continued)where he comes out every time we go around thiscircle.PRESIDENT:Yes, sir. HALDEMAN:Then you get to the thing with Segretti. Hereis a potential...PRESIDENT:Segretti.?HALDEMAN:...a criminal violation on Segretti, too. PRESIDENT:On what some mailing? Horse shit, that's soinconsequential.HALDEMAN:Okay. But then, then, he was Chapin's agent sodoes that make Chapin criminally liable? Chapinwas my employee so does that made me criminallyliable?PRESIDENT:Is that a felony? HALDEMAN:No. It's a misdemeanor. PRESIDENT:That's what I mean. HALDEMAN:It's a misdemeanor committed without ourspecific knowledge so I don't see how, how we`reliable.PRESIDENT:Listen... campaigns, there's never a, thatdidn't have a campaign mailing without a disclaimer or, er...HALDEMAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:...mailing (unintelligible)HALDEMAN:We had, we had the same thing in'60, uh'62 inCalifornia Democrats for NixonPRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:The Dem, no the Committee to preserve the, theCommittee to Preserve the Democratic Party in California. The thing that crazy woman got usinto Naomi Baxter.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah. You see the point is that it, itisn't just Bob (unintelligible) it is a question (unintelligible) of big fish, as we mentioned, Colson I knew was going to be hard to prove. I don't I don't see I think unless Colson's lyingto Steve-I mean Dean, was questioning him, Deandoes not believe that Colson that they (unintelligible) Colson.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.13HALDEMAN:I don&#8482;t either. And as I've told you I've beenconvinced all along Colson doesn't did not know.PRESIDENT:About this? HALDEMAN:About the Watergate PRESIDENT:I don't think he did &#338; except&#8211; HALDEMAN:Yep I don't think he did, eitherPRESIDENT:...(Unintelligible) was saying that uh, ofcourse, this is Magruder's argument, apparently he's made it too, Colson was insisting on getting the information but I don't know why I don't know what it was all a hoax, why he would be involved if they were going to have a-demonstration in San Diego or not was somethingI couldn't quite figure out. Know what I mean? But he was involved in, in too many things.HALDEMAN:But Mitchell, as you know, was very muchinvolved in the demonstration in San Diego remember Mitchell came in very concerned about changing the convention site because he wasafraid of inability to control San Diego.PRESIDENT:Oh, yeah. (Pause) Well, there's a lot of badbreaks they're in.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:We got a bad break with the Judge, for example&#8211; HALDEMAN:Monumental bad breaks and a string of 'em oneleading to another.PRESIDENT:This judge, that&#8211; HALDEMAN:Starting with the just incredible thing of onewas "Time Magazine" this week started off a thing one lousy part-time night guard at the Watergate who happened to notice the tape onthe, on the locks on the doors. If he hadn'tseen them the thing probably would have never busted. If you hadn't had Watergate you wouldn't have had Segretti. You wouldn't have had any of that stuff.(Pause)Wouldn't have had all that stuff on thecontributors.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.14PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) the people that are yellingabout us about, about the old establishment, the Times, (unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Well, let's see. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:The one, one niche that they, and I don't thinkthey see here, where they're gonna get but theysee there's still an opportunity and they, they're gonna grind away &#8218;til they either exhaust it or or get to something.(Pause)PRESIDENT:In a sense Committee get the hearings over in ahurry, the theory that Baker had, which ofcourse I rejected it, was incredible. Was to get, give us, get, get all of 'em and everybody and all then there (unintelligible) testify and he said choke the goddamned thing for a week and after that the people will be bored to death. Well that makes sense provided...HALDEMAN:it doesn't go anywhere.PRESIDENT:No -provided you can run the risk of having yourpeople go out there and be asked a lot of tough questions by a smart goddamned lawyer. So, I knew that it's probably, we would be better advised to stick. The guy that most wants tostick to is Colson. Obviously, he's, I don'tthink he wants to be questioned and I can see why because of other involvements (unintelligible). So, therefore...HALDEMAN:He&#8482;s the only one who doesn't want to be? PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) fight for executive privilege.Obviously, no we&#8482;re just not going to allow it'mainly because we just can't, can't allow that sort of thing to come out (unintelligible). But then what you have to do is to you gotta fight it through the goddamned courts (unintelligible) for a long time. You've got the story of cover-up, that's, that's what's involved.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Right.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.15HALDEMAN:And that's bad. That that's really worse thanthe...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:It isn't really worse it isn't worse than JohnMitchell going to jail for either perjury or complicity.PRESIDENT:No, no, no, I've, no, I've balanced that up,too. But you see what they're really after he'll take cover-up 'til hell freezes over. You know what I mean? Because, uh,...HALDEMAN:If that's really where it goes and I guess itis.PRESIDENT:But John, but you can't figure Magruder did itby himself. That's what I, I just don't believe Magruder's done much as, -a competent operator. (Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:I'm not sure if that's, I'm not sure. PRESIDENT:Sounds to me like, oh see that's the only thingthat I think they must really think. Theinvestigator thinks, &#64258;Christ, Magruder would a,I mean, a decision like that would be made by Magruder?&#64258; Of course, he was managing manager in effect. Yeah, I think...HALDEMAN:I think, I think it's now, I think Dean thinksit's possible that it wasPRESIDENT:...that Magruder may have stumbled ontosomething, because, what do you say?HALDEMAN:Well, done the specific.thing on his own withina broad authority that he misinterpreted -PRESIDENT:In other words -- HALDEMAN:In other words Mitchell was clearly aware andfully aware of the Liddy intelligence operation.No question about that.PRESIDENT:But maybe not of the specific... HALDEMAN:But maybe not of the specific act and, and itwould be perfectly...PRESIDENT:Magruder was aware of the act.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.16HALDEMAN:Well, he says that he wasn't, in court. (Pause)And, you can even go to that step and buy it.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Which is that Liddy was, was doing it and on, on,un, under the broad authority but then, you get down to will Liddy take the heat2PRESIDENT:Well, let me say this but coming back to thebusiness about trying to get everybody up there and all the rest we've got to remember that what, whatcould be involved. Let's see. Let's see the wholeview going up. (Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:It wasn't me and I don't think it has to be Dwight,but Dwight, Dwight I think may have to recant some of these (unintelligible) or explain them.PRESIDENT:Yes, that's... HALDEMAN:...some of what I said earlier. PRESIDENT:That's right. Well uh what I meant then might be anadvantage. Let's see. Oh, it's what, I mean, uh,maybe my reasoning is fallacious, but our real concern is Mitchell. (Noise) Maybe they're going to get him anyway.HALDEMAN:Well, John, at least the last I got into it in anydetail, John Dean didn't think so.PRESIDENT:They going to get -that right? HALDEMAN:See, John Dean's whole approach as I understand it--this is when we went through it out in Californiafor two full days (clears throat) what came out is his whole premise his, his basic approach to this is one of containment keep it in this box and he thinks he can. And that box goes on the theory that Liddy did it without authority from above and Liddy's been convicted of doing it. Liddy was the responsible guy at the campaign organization. He's the highest guy that they've got. The other peoplewere employees of Liddy's.PRESIDENT:Well, that's the way the case stands at the moment.Then, of course: if the judge blasted the hell out of that Friday I suppose (Unintelligible) didn't get cooperation and so forthHALDEMAN:Liddy apparently is a little bit nuts and amasochist and apparently he wants to, looks to the martyrdomMARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.17HALDEMAN:of doing this. He kind of likes it. And that's(Continued)true. Maybe that's where it'll stay. That'sDean's that's his hope. That's what he, he's frantically trying to keep -not frantically) persistently trying to keep...PRESIDENT:Liddy'll appeal it...HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) strings inPRESIDENT:Who are appealing it? McCord? Liddy should beatit. Son-of-a-bitch, they're two of them (unintelligible) Hunt's not it.HALDEMAN:Hunt went and pleaded guilty they all pleadguilty and...PRESIDENT:...he's appealing.HALDEMAN:Liddy and McCord didn't plead guilty. PRESIDENT:Liddy's appealing that... HALDEMAN:Liddy's appealing but Liddy's not appealing onuh, merit, on the merits. He's appealing on the, on the errors. Liddy's going for errors. There you've got anoth-another problem Liddy's alawyer, who thinks he's smarter than the judgeand the court, and the court prosecutor, which every lawyer seems to have to convince himself of. Liddy's game is purely, as I understand it, his. appeal game is purely on errors.PRESIDENT:Oh, sure.HALDEMAN:Then he's apparently got some...At least somepossibilitiesPRESIDENT:...Sirica? HALDEMAN:Has areas of potential po-,challenge someerrors.PRESIDENT:Well, coming back to this, I think that the uh,is the, is the coming free of the White Housepeople.HALDEMAN:That doesn't impair that other case at all. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) mention (unintelligible).MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.18HALDEMAN:Because the containment theory works and I don'tsee what danger is in our going out because we don't have anything to say. The people you're protecting by executive privilege -let's face it are oh Jesus, you got Ehrlichman I don't know about Ehrlichman. John knows a hell of a lot.PRESIDENT:He does know a hell of a lot but not about thiscase.HALDEMAN:Doesn't he? Okay. PRESIDENT:not about Watergate. He doesn't know agooddamned thing, unfortunately.HALDEMAN:I don't think he -(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:He ran the other thing. He ran, you know,...HALDEMAN:Yeah. damn PRESIDENT:you know the ^ stuff about... HALDEMAN:Well, can they expand to that if they can't whatdoes he do? Sure, he can, there's no rules of evidence up there by charter is to cover all the campaign activity.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). Fine fine but I can't-no-no.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). Ellsberg? PRESIDENT:I can't think now -no, no -- HALDEMAN:Teddy Kennedy? (Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:Uh, I don't like it. That's gonna be awful hardto get to. Thank God it's in pretty good shape,(Pause)Now I don't think we could now however, I don'tthink we can shift our ground, and cave on that idea for privilege sake, but I think we have to find a way to make statements. They will not accept statements until they are free to(unintelligible), that's the theory I'm workingon, I'm working on with them now and Dean and Moore are trying to see can they save (unintelligible) and, of course, everything they say would raise additional questions. But so be it.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.19HALDEMAN:Well...PRESIDENT:It's better to have statements... HALDEMAN:All right, all right. Look, we've agreed toanswer written interrogation, huh?PRESIDENT:Right. HALDLEMAN:I, for instance, I have to, have to do that,Chapin has to do that.PRESIDENT:Everybody. HALDEMAN:We've all agreed to do that. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:Okay, but why the hell don't we do(unintelligible) instead, instead of, if theysubmit it, why don't we sit down and do ourstatement right now.PRESIDENT:That's a nice suggestion. HALDEMAN:Why doesn't Dean ask me the questions that, thatthe Committee will ask me? Why don't I write my answers down? Why doesn't Chapin write his? Why don't we give those to the "Washington Star"and let them print the qoddamned things in totaltomorrow morning.PRESIDENT:(unintelligible) HALDEMAN:What's wrong with... PRESIDENT:try to see why couldn't each of you make a swornstatement. (Unintelligible) open too manydoors.HALDEIMAN:Really? PRESIDENT:Dean, Dean's the expert here. (Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:Well, why don't we make them and see. I meanwithout putting em out. Why don't we take the step we&#8482;re doing. We're gonna have toapparently anyway and so he says we're gonnaopen too many doors. Aren't they gonna open? We've already agreed to do that anyway.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.20PRESIDENT:Except that they'll you see his point is well,anyway let's try it I don't mind, it's worth trying. His point is we've got that they will never take the statements so it's never going to happen. That's the other course that's the problem. They're never gonna take writtenstatements.HALDEMAN:You mean, they won't accept them at all. PRESIDENT:No, no. But that's all right. You see my pointis the way we end up is okay, we refuse to go up but they will have a they will say we will not accept that (unintelligible) try to get asubpoena, and we will move to quash and we'llhave a court test. All right, that's where it'll stand so forth, fight that out in the courts and try to make a case with the other witnesses waiting for the court test. Of course (unintelligible) the other way to do it is to - so that, that, that, rules that out -and you,have got no statements at all. Now the problemwith that, confronts me with me with is is, that it appears that I covered up... the White House people. I won't let that statement, so what that's what I told Dean and the rest, I said, "Why don't you make up or why don't you just putout a statement?&#64258; Any kind of a statement. Ofcourse, I said make it as general as possible but just so somebody can say that the President that a statement has been made through the President, upon which he has based his statement to the effect that he has confidence in hisstaff. See I mean I mean it looks now that I amjust doing that as a, as a thumb your nose, screw-off.HALDEMAN:Except that everybody seems to accept the factthat there is a Dean report to the President on the basis of which the President said that.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Maybe.HALDEMAN:And we've now established that as I understandit, that Dean no I guess we haven't, but we can, that it was an oral report, not a written report.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.21PRESIDENT:Yeah. (Unintelligible) investigation and soforth, but that needs you see by having a statement, statement prepared, statement or statements prepared which are delivered to the Committee, preferably I think delivery (unintelligible), that's what he's working onnow delivery to Eastland perhaps and Eastlandthen puts it out, and the purpose of answering all the recent charges the most recent charges not everythingHALDEMAN:The Dean charges. PRESIDENT:The Dean charges. And Ziegler said, but, "thatraises too many questions new questions" so, ah,then John Ehrlichman says that those questions (Laughs) are gonna be raised anyway.HALDEMAN: Yeah. PRESIDENT:That's my point of view that maybe they're gonnabe raised anyway.HALDEMAN:I don't understand what Ron means, but maybehe's right. I don't think...PRESIDENT: (Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:I've spent more time on this than, than anybodyreally and I don't know any questions that aren't already out.PRESIDENT:But they I don't quite know either, that's my'point. I don't know what the hell otherquestions...HALDEMAN:Well, I think, I think if Ron says it'll raisenew questions, the burden of proof is on him. What are they?PRESIDENT:Yeah. I see.HALDEMAN:I don't - I'm -not so sure...PRESIDENT:He's already (unintelligible) pepole(unintelligible) something to do. Mostly has to do with Segretti and Chapin, that's the thing.HALDEMAN:Well, I don't understand why we can't run thatone out...PRESIDENT:I, I personally think that you've gotta, you'vegot a bunch Segretti and Chapin. We just gotta let that one hang out...MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.22HALDEMAN:Here's the first thing...PRESIDENT:I really do. HALDEMAN:...I don't in the first place, the guy thatknows the most about the Segretti thing is Segretti.PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:The guy that knows the next well, the guy thatknows the next most is Chapin, who is protected. The guy that knows the next most after that is Strachan, who's protected. The guy that knows the next most after that is Kalmbach, who's not protected. And the guy that knows the next mostis me, who's protected and that's the end of theSegretti story I think.PRESIDENT:Yeah. So put it out. HALDEMAN:Okay. The point there is that the guy thatknows the most is Segretti. He is not protected.PRESIDENT:So, he's gonna get questioned?HALDEMAN:So, he's gonna get questioned. Now, I've heardSegretti's Dean has a two hour tape where he interrogated Segretti and went through the whole damn thing and, maybe I'm stupid, but I listened to the whole tape and for my dough I'd just as soon play it out on the radio tonight on CBS andlet the world hear it.PRESIDENT:That's my feeling. HALDEMAN:Because what it says to me is, is not nearly asbad as what I would venture 90% of the people in this country think happened.PRESIDENT: Sure.HALDEMAN:But it does confirm Dwight Chapin recruited him,and he gives him the details he had him to dinner at his house and he had -Gordon Strachan was there. But, what the hell, he went to school with Dwight Chapin.PRESIDENT:Already, Bob, that's already put out anyway.,HALDEMAN:That's right.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.23PRESIDENT:That&#8482;s already been put out.HALDEMAN:That&#8482;s right. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) recruited. What the hell(unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Now Ron's worried because that, that make `causewe denied we didn't deny Ron and Ron had coveredthat.PRESIDENT:Who denied it? I thought&#8211; HALDEMAN:The press, that Ron, that Ron, see we denied theChapin story in the Post, but he denied it on the basis that it was based on hearsay...PRESIDENT: Yeah.HALDEMAN:...and was fundamentally incorrect.PRESIDENT: Fundamentally... HALDEMAN:And it was. PRESIDENT:Yeah &#338; fundamentally - yeah. HALDEMAN:We didn't deny any specifics in it. PRESIDENT:That of course, I think is what we should say.(Unintelligible) fundamentally incorrectfundamentally.HALDEMAN:All we can - let's go back and make the case onthat.PRESIDENT:Say that the Post story said this, this, this,and this, and I think that's the way you want to handle, that. For example, the Post story saidthis, this and this this is incorrect. Why? Nowwhat is correct is this, this, this and this. That's the way you ought to handle that so as to get us off the hook on that. So the Press Secretary, did not lie. Well, my feeling is that taking a - the, the, the, the, uh, we'renot gonna, we're (unintelligible) That's all I'mafter. My feeling is that if the facts are gonna come out in all this period of time, I would rather have us get them out to the extent we can, in a forthcoming way so that (unintelligible)MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.24HALDEMAN:I don't know, I don't know if Dean's filled youin on this stuff. I know another thing that worries him. This I'd forgotten about, that it leads to, cause he's afraid that Sloan...PRESIDENT:Sloan? HALDEMAN:He's afraid that, that you know, he gets Sloanup that, that he's.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...that, that he's got to say something becausethere's another fact that's never come out. They've never tracked down but they could. But and again it appears as terrible, but it isn'tat all and the facts on it are, are worked outfine. But there was $350,000 in cash transferred out of the campaign fund over to a separate holder and it was under Strachan's control. It was, in a sense, trans-, in essence, transferred to me. What that was supposed to have been, if you recall, was$2,000,000, which we, way back, had told Stanswe wanted it was that leftover cash that we wanted set aside.PRESIDENT:Oh yeah. HALDEMAN:Before reporting and all that just so it wasthere as a reserve fund.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah.HALDEMAN:Well, it got boiled down because of reportingproblems and everything else to where we only moved 350,000. The 350,000 in cash was moved.PRESIDENT:And that was used for polls? HALDEMAN:That was the purpose of that was to be for pollsand everything else. It was not used for pollsor anything else. It wasn't used. And that has been transferred back to the re-election committee. It was transferred after the, after the election the cash was moved back over...PRESIDENT:Uh, I seeHALDEMAN:...to, uh, uh, Mardian, not Mardian uh, LaRue,Fred LaRue and his back up. So, the money was not spent.PRESIDENT:What's the difference then?MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.25HALDEMAN:Okay. The difference is that, that establishes,if hey want to call it that, you can, you look at the yellow journals and a secret fund that Haldeman controlled, you could say, which I guess I did. The question of who controlled it never arose because it was never used.Physically Strachan -actually Strachan did.That some other guy did. I don't even know who had it some, some guy I don't even know put the stuff in a box, in a safe out in Virginia somewhere, I understand. That's where it was held.PRESIDENT:Well, (unintelligible) boxes in every campaign.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) Not that it worries me, notthat it's ever worried me and I and maybe there's more to it, than I, there's something to it than I&#8482;ve found.PRESIDENT:Sure (Unintelligible)(Laughs) HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) sir. (Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Can you sort of, I don't know. Of course, noneof us really knows what to do here because of...HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) each, each of us filing astatement now that's as complete as we can make it...I need to, each of us filing a statement now as, as complete as we can make it &#338;PRESIDENT:That's right. That's the way.HALDEMAN:...but that it is not a statement under, uh... PRESIDENT:...duress... HALDEMAN:...under questioning that, that, uh, says thereis nothing else to say. I wouldn't say it.PRESIDENT:No.HALDEMAN:I wouldn't say that this is the whole truth.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:I'd say in relation to the charges... PRESIDENT:Yeah, uh very good. HALDEMAN:...that have been raised PRESIDENT:charges that have been made and then I'll beglad to answer any other questions.MARCH 20, 1973 FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.26HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Yeah. I would say, is there any other? I thinkyou've got to abandon the disclaimer at the end.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Now if other questions are raised I'll be gladto answer them. See what I mean? Sure. Now,that way I, I don't see how&#8482;s it's, uh, and ifthey raise the other questions, then you answer them.HALDEMAN:I would be concerned about putting out astatement that purported to be complete because I don't I'm not sure if...PRESIDENT:Never, never, never. You never do that foranother reason is that, then, from then on they'd say (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:No, you could say on the matters of aspecifically raised (unintelligible) say this-Any further questions? (Unintelligible)(Voices fade)