TRANSCRIPT PREPARED BY THE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY STAFF FORTHE HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEEOF A RECORDING OF A MEETING AMONG THE PRESIDENT, JOHN DEANAND H.R. HALDEMAN ON MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55A.M.July 8, 1974TRANSCRIPT PREPARED BY THE IMPEACHMENTINQUIRY STAFF FOR THE HOUSE JUDICIARYCOMMITTEE OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING AMONG THE PRESIDENT, JOHN DEAN AND H.R. HALDEMAN ON MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.*PRESIDENT:John, sit down, sit down.DEAN:Good morning.PRESIDENT:Well, what is the Dean summary of the dayabout?DEAN:John caught me on the way out and asked meabout why Gray was holding back oninformation, if that was under instructionsfrom us. And it, uh, it was and it wasn't. Uh, it was instructions proposed by theAttorney General, consistent with your pressconference statement that no further raw data was to be turned over to thePRESIDENT:Full committeeDEAN:full committee.PRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:And that was the extent of it. And Gray,himself, is the one who reached theconclusion that no more information beturned over; he'd turned over enough. Uh, so this is again Pat Gray making decisionson his own as to how to handle his hearings.He has been totally unwilling all*The quotation marks used in this transcriptare for convenience and do not indicateverbatim quotation by the speaker.along to take any guidance, any instruction.We don't know what he is going to do. He isnot going to talk about it. He won't review it, uh, and I don't thinkPRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:he does it to harm you in any way, sir.PRESIDENT:He's just quite stubborn and, he's quitestubborn; also he isn't very smart. Youknow he and IDEAN:He is bullheaded. PRESIDENT:He is smart in his own way, but, DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:but he's got that typical, "Well, by Godthis is right and they're not going to do it."DEAN:That's why he thinks he'll be confirmed,because he thinks he's being, he's being his own man. He&#8482;s being forthright, honest. He's feels he has turned over too much andso it's a conscious decision that he isharming the Bureau by doing this and so he is not going toPRESIDENT:[Sighs]I hope to God that we get off[unintelligible] though today that, this isbecause the White House told him to do this or that or the other thing. And also, Itold Ehrlichman, I don't see why our littleboys can't make something out of the fact that God darn it this is the, this is the, the only-2responsible decision you could possiblymake. The FBI cannot turn over raw files.Has anybody made that point? I have tried.DEAN:Sam Ervin has made that point himself. PRESIDENT:Did he?DEAN:Uh, in fact, in reading the transcript ofGray's hearings, Ervin tried to hold Gray back from doing what he was doing at thetime he did it. Uh, I thought it was veryunwise. I don't think that anyone is criticizingPRESIDENT:Well, let's say,DEAN:your position on it.PRESIDENT:let's make the point, let's make the pointthat the raw files cannot be turned over. Ithink that point should be made.DEAN:That, that -- PRESIDENT:We are standing for the rights of innocentindividuals. The American Civil LibertyUnion is against it. We're against it.[Unintelligible] the tradition, and it will continue to be the tradition that all files are -- I'd like to turn them all over tosomebody. I'd like to get a chance forSpiro to put it out. [Unintelligible] and let them see what is in one.DEAN:How damaging &#338;-3PRESIDENT:Any further word on, on Sullivan? Is hestill --DEAN:Yeah, he's, he's going to be over to see metoday, this morning, hopefully, sometime. Uh --PRESIDENT:As soon as you get that, I'll be availableto talk to you this afternoon.DEAN:All right, sir.PRESIDENT:I will be busy until about one o'clock;after that we can contact. Anytime you are through I would like to see whatever [unintelligible] he has. We've gotsomething but I'd like to just see what itis.DEAN:Uh, the reason I thought we ought to talkthis morning is because in, in ourconversations, uh, uh, I have, I hale the impression that you don't know everything I know,PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:and it makes it very difficult for you tomake judgments that, uh, that only you can makePRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:on some of these things and I thought that DRFSIDENT:You've got, in other words, I've got to knowwhy you feel that, uh, that something-4DEAN:Well, let me,PRESIDENT:that, that we shouldn't unravel something.DEAN:let me give you my overall first. PRESIDENT:In other words, your, your judgment as towhere it stands, and where we go now.DEAN:I think, I think that, uh, there's no doubtabout the seriousness of the problem we're, we've got. We have a cancer -- within --close to the Presidency, that's growing.It's growing daily. It's compounding, it grows geometrically now, because it compounds itself. Uh, that'll be clear as Iexplain, you know, some of the details, uh,of why it is, and it basically is because (1) we're being blackmailed; (2) uh, peopleare going to start perjuring themself veryquickly that have not had to perjure themselves to protect other people and the like. And that is just -- And there is noassurance --PRESIDENT:That it won't bust. DEAN:That that won't bust. PRESIDENT:True.DEAN:So let me give you the sort of basic facts,talking first-5about the Watergate; and then aboutSegretti; and then about some of theperipheral items that, uh, have come up. First of all, on, on the Watergate: how did it all start, where did it start? It startedwith an instruction to me from Bob Haldemanto see if we couldn't set up a perfectly legitimate campaign intelligence operationover at the Reelection Committee.PRESIDENT:Hm. DEAN:Not being in this business, I turned tosomebody who had been in this business, JackCaulfield, who is, I don't know if youremember Jack or not. He was your original bodyguard beforePRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:they had PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:candidate, candidatePRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:protection, an old New York City policeman. PRESIDENT:Right. I know, I know him. DEAN:Uh, Jack had worked for John and then wastransferred to my office. I said, "Jackcome up with a plan that, you know, is a normal infiltration, I mean, you know,buying-6information from secretaries and all thatsort of thing.&#64258; He did, he put together aplan. It was kicked around, and, uh, I went to Ehrlichman with it. I went to Mitchell with it, and the consensus was thatCaulfield wasn't the man to do this. Uh, inretrospect, that might have been a bad call, 'cause he is an incredibly cautious personand, and wouldn't have put the situationwhere it is today.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:All right, after rejecting that, they said,"We still need something," so I was told tolook around for somebody that could go over to 1701 and do this. That's when I came upwith Gordon Liddy, who -- They needed alawyer. Gordon had an intelligence background from his FBI service. I was aware of the fact that he had done someextremely sensitive things for the WhiteHouse while he'd been at the White House, and he had apparently done them well. Uh, going out into Ellsberg's doctor's officePRESIDENT:Oh, yeah.DEAN:and things like this. He'd worked withleaks. He'd, you know, tracked these thingsdown. Uh, and [coughs] so the report that Igot from Krogh was that he was a hell of a good man and, and not only that, a good lawyer, uh, and could set up a properoperation. So we talked to Liddy.-7Liddy was interested in doing it. Took, uh,Liddy over to meet Mitchell. Mitchellthought highly of him because, apparently, Mitchell was partially involved in his ev-, coming to the White House to work for, forKrogh. Uh, Liddy had been at Treasurybefore that. Then Liddy was told to put together his plan, you know, how he wouldrun an intelligence operation. And this wasafter he was hired over "here at the, uh, the Committee. Magruder called me in January and said, "I'd like to have you comeover and see Liddy's plan."PRESIDENT:January of '72? DEAN:January of '72. Like, "You come over toMitchell's office and sit in on a meetingwhere Liddy is going to lay his plan out.&#64258; I said, "Well, I don't really know as I am the man, but if you want me there I will behappy to.&#64258; [Clears throat] So I came overand Liddy laid out a million dollar plan that was the most incredible thing I have ever laid my eyes on: all in codes, andinvolved black bag operations, kidnapping,providing prostitutes, uh, to weaken the opposi tion, bugging, uh, mugging teams. Itwas just an incredible thing. [Clearsthroat]-8PRESIDENT:But, uh,DEAN:And --PRESIDENT:that was, that was not, uh, DEAN:No. PRESIDENT:discussed at theDEAN:No.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] DEAN:No, not at all. And,PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]DEANuh, Mitchell, Mitchell just virtually satthere puffing and laughing. I could tell 'cause after he --- after Liddy left theoffice I said, "That's the most incrediblething I have ever seen.&#64258; He said, "I agree.&#64258; And so then he was told to go backto the drawing boards and come up withsomething realistic. So there was a second meeting. Uh, they asked me to come over to that. I came into the tail end of themeeting. I wasn't there for the first part.I don't know how long the meeting lasted. Uh, at this point, they were discussing again bugging, kidnapping and the like. Andat this point I said, right in front ofeverybody, very clearly, I said, "These are not the sort of things (1) that are ever tobe discussed in the office of the AttorneyGeneral of the United States" -- where he still was -- "and I am personally incensed.&#64258; I was trying to get Mitchell off the hook,uh, cause --PRESIDENT:I know. DEAN:He's a, he's a nice person, doesn't like tosay no under-- when people he's going tohave to work with.PRESIDENT:That's right.-9DEAN:So, I let, I let it be known. I said "Youall pack that stuff up and get it the hellout of here I cause we just, you just can't talk this way in this office and you shouldn't, you should re-examine your wholethinking.&#64258; Came back --PRESIDENT:Who else was present? Besides you -- DEAN:It was Magruder, Magruder,PRESIDENT:Magruder.DEAN:uh, Mitchell, Liddy and myself. I came backright after the meeting and told Bob, I said, "Bob, we've got a growing disaster onour hands if they're thinking this way," andI said, "The White House has got to stay out of this and I, frankly, am not going to beinvolved in it.&#64258; He said, "I agree John.&#64258;And, I thought, at that point, the thing was turned off. That's the last I heard of it, when I thought it was turned off, because itwas an absurd proposal.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Liddy -- I did have dealings with himafterwards. We never talked about it. Nowthat would be hard to believe for somepeople, but, uh, we never did. Just the fact of the matter.PRESIDENT:Well, you were talking about other things.-10DEAN:Other things. We had so many other things.PRESIDENT:He had some legal problems at one time.DEAN:Now [coughs] -- PRESIDENT:But you were his advisor, and I, Iunderstand how you could have some, uh, whatcam--what are they campaign laws -- I knewthat was you, you have -- Haldeman told me you, that you were heading all of that upfor us. Go ahead.DEAN:Now. [Clears throat] So, Liddy went backafter that and was over, over at, uh, 1701, the Committee, and I, this is where I comeinto having put the pieces together afterthe fact as to what I can put together what happened. Liddy sat over there and tried tocome up with another plan, that he couldsell. (1) They were talking, saying to him he was asking -for too much money, and I don&#8482;t think they were discounting theillegal points at this, after -- you know,Jeb is not a lawyer. He didn't know whether this was the way the game was played or not, and what it was all about. They came upwith, apparently, another plan, uh, but theycouldn't get it approved by anybody over there. So Liddy and Hunt apparently came tosee Chuck Colson, and Chuck Colson picked upthe telephone and called Magruder and said, "You all either fish or cut bait. Uh, this is-11absurd to have these guys over there and notusing them, and if you're not going to usethem, I may use them.&#64258; Things of this nature.PRESIDENT:When was this?DEAN:This was apparently in February of '72.PRESIDENT:That could be -- Colson know what they weretalking about?DEAN:I can only assume, because of his closerelationship withPRESIDENT:Hunt. DEAN:Hunt, he had a damn good idea of what theywere talking about, a damn good idea. Hewould probably deny it, deny it today and probably get away with denying it. But 1,uh, I still --PRESIDENT:Unless Hunt -- DEAN:Unless Hunt, uh, blows on him -- PRESIDENT:But then Hunt isn&#8482;t enough. It takes twodoesn't it?DEAN:Probably. Probably. But Liddy was therealso and if, if Liddy were to blow --PRESIDENT:Then you&#8482;ve got a problem -- I was saying asto the criminal liability in the-12DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:White House. Okay.DEAN:I will go back over that, and tell PRESIDENT:Was that Colson? DEAN:you where I think the, the soft spots are.PRESIDENT:Colson -- that, that, that Colson, uh, youthink was tha, -ah, was the person whoDEAN:I think lie,PRESIDENT:pushed?DEAN:I think he helped to get the push, get thething off dime. Now something else occurred, though ---PRESIDENT:Did Colson -- had he talked to anybody here?DEAN:No. I think this was an independent PRESIDENT:Did he talk to Haldeman?DEAN:No, I don't think so. Now, but here's theother the where the next thing comes in the chain. I think that Bob was assuming that they had something that was proper overthere, some intelligence gathering operationthat Liddy was operating. And through Strachan, uh, who was his tickler, uh, he started pushing themPRESIDENT:[Sighs] Yeah.DEAN:to get something, to get some-13information and they took that as a signal-- Magruder took that as a signal -- toprobably go to Mitchell and say, "They are pushing us like crazy for this from the White House.&#64258; And so Mitchell probablypuffed on his pipe and said, "Go ahead," andnever really re-- reflected on what it was all about. So, they had some plan thatobviously had, I gather, different targetsthey were going to go after. They were going to infiltrate, and bug, and do all this sort of thing to a lot of thesetargets. This is knowledge I have after thefact. [Coughs] And, apparently, they, uh, they, they had, they had after, they hadinitially broken in and bugged theDemocratic National Committee, they were getting information. The information was coming over here to Strachan. Some of itwas given to Haldeman, uh, there is no doubtabout it. Uh -PRESIDENT:Did he know what it was coming from? DEAN:I don't 'really know if he would.PRESIDENT:Not necessarily.DEAN:Not necessarily. That's not necessarily.Uh--PRESIDENT:Strachan knew w 1iat it was from.DEAN:Strachan knew what it was from. No doubtabout it, and-14whether Strachan -- I have never come topress these people on these points becauseit,PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:it hurts them to, to give up that next inch,so I had to piece things together. Allright, so Strachan was aware of receiving information, reporting to Bob. At one pointBob even gave instructions to change theircapabilities from Muskie to McGovern, and had passed this back through Strachan to Magruder and, and apparently to Liddy. AndLiddy was starting to make arrangements togo in and bug the, uh, uh, McGovern operation. They had done prelim--PRESIDENT:They had never bugged Muskie, though, didthey?DEAN:No, they hadn't, but they had a, they had,uh, they'dPRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]DEAN:infiltrated it by a, a, they had PRESIDENT:A secretary. DEAN:a secretary and a chauffeur. Nothingillegal about that.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] DEAN:Now, so the information was coming over hereand then, uh, I finally, after the nextpoint in time where I became aware of anything was on June 17th, when I got the word that there had been this break-in atthe Democratic National Committee andsomebody from the Committee had been15caught, uh, from our Committee had beencaught in the DNC. And I said, "Oh, my God,that, I can only.&#64258; You know, if, instantly putting the pieces together -[Coughs]PRESIDENT:You knew what it was.DEAN:I knew what it was. So I called Liddy, uh,on that Monday morning, and I said, "Gordon," T said, "first, T want to know ifanybody in the White House was involved inthis." And he said, "No, they weren't.&#64258; I said, "Well, I want to know how in God's name this happened.&#64258; And he said, "Well, Iwas pushed without mercy by Magruder to getin there, get more information, that the information, it was not satisfactory.Magruder said, 'The White House is not happywith what we're getting."'PRESIDENT:The White House? DEAN:The 'White House. Yeah. Uh --PRESIDENT:Who do vou think was pushing him?DEAN:Well, I think it was probably Strachanthinking that Bob wanted things, and, because, because I have seen that happen onother occasions where things have been saidto be of-16very prime importance when they reallyweren't.PRESIDENT:Why [unintelligible] I wonder? I am justtrying to think as to why then. We'd just finished the Moscow trip. I mean, we were--DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:The Democrats had just nominated McG--McGovern. I mean, for Christ's sakes, Imean, what the hell were we -- I mean I can see doing it earlier but T mean, now let me sav, I can see the pressure, but I don't seewhy all the pressure would have been aroundtlien.DEAN:I don't know, other than the fact that, uh,they might have been looking for informationaboutPRESIDENT:The convention. DEAN:the conventions.PRESIDENT:Well, that's right.DEAN:Because, I understand, also, after the fact,that there was a plan to bug Larry O'Brien's suite down in Florida.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:Uh, so, uh, Liddy told me that, uh, youknow, this is what had happened and, andthis is why it had happened.-17PRESIDENT:Liddy told you he was planning -- where'd helearn there was such a plan -- from whom?DEAN:Beg your pardon? PRESIDENT:Where did he learn of the plans to bug LarryO'Brien's suite?DEAN:From Magruder, after the, long after thefact.PRESIDENT:Oh, Magruder, he knows.DEAN:Yeah. Magruder is totally knowledgeable onthe whole thing.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:All right, now, we've gone through thetrial. We've I don't know if Mitchell hasperjured himself in the Grand Jury or not. I've never --PRESIDENT:Who?DEAN:Mitchell. I don't know how much knowledgehe actually had. I know that Magruder has perjured himself in the Grand Jury. I knowthat Porter has perjured himself, uh, in theGrand Jury.PRESIDENT:Porter [unintelligible]-18DEAN:He is one of Magruder&#8482;s deputies.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:Uh, they set up this scenerio which they ranby me. They said, &#64257;How about this?&#64258; I said, &#64257;I don&#8482;t know. I, you.know, if, ifthis is what you are going to.hang on,fine.&#64258; Uh, that they--PRESIDENT:What did they say before the Grand Jury?DEAN:They said, they said, as they said beforethe trial and the Grand Jury, that, that, uh, Liddy had come over as, as a counselPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:and we knew he -had these capacities to,PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:You know,PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:to do legitimate intelligence. We had noidea what he was doing.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:He was given an authorization of $250,000PRESIDENT:Right.19DEAN:to collect information, because oursurrogates were out on the on the road.They had no protection. We had information that there were going to be demonstrations against them, that, uh, uh, we had to have aplan to get information as to whatliabilities they were going to be confronted with.PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:and Liddy was charged with doing this. Wehad no knowledge that he.was going,to bug the DNC. UhPRESIDENT:Well, the point is, that's not true.DEAN:That&#8482;s right. PRESIDENT:Magruder did know that&#352;DEAN:Magruder specifically instructed him to goback in the DNC.PRESIDENT:He did? DEAN:Yes.PRESIDENT:You know that? Yeah. I see. Okay.DEAN:Uh, I honestly believe that no one over hereknew that. I know, uh, as God is my maker, I had no knowledge that they were going todo this.PRESIDENT:Bob didn't either [unintelligible] DEAN:Uh, but-20PRESIDENT:They know you&#8482;re not the issue. Bob, Bob,now&#352;he wouldn&#8482;t know.DEAN:Bob, I don't believe specifically knew theywere going in there.PRESIDENT:I don't think so.DEAN:I don't think he did. I think he knew therewas a capacity do this but he wouldn't, wasn't giving it specific direction.PRESIDENT:Strachan, did he,know?DEAN:I think Strachan did know. PRESIDENT:They were going back into the DNC? Huntnever [unintelligible]DEAN:All right, so - uh, those people are introuble as a result of the Grand Jury and the trial. Mitchell, of course, was nevercalled during the trial. NowPRESIDENT:Mitchell has given a sworn statement? DEAN:Yes, sir. PRESIDENT:To the Bureau?DEAN:To the Grand Jury--PRESIDENT:Did he go before the Grand Jury? DEAN:He had, we had a, an arrangement whereby hewent down to, with several of the, becauseit was, you know, the heat of-21this thing and the implications.on theelection, we made an arrangement where theycould quietly go into,the Department of Justice and have one of the assistant U.S. Attorneys come over and take their testimonyand then read it before the Grand Jury. Uh,PRESIDENT:That was [unintelligible] DEAN:although I--That's right, Mitchell wasactually called before the Grand Jury. TheGrand Jury would not settle for less. The jurors wanted him.PRESIDENT:And he went.DEAN:And he went.PRESIDENT:Good. DEAN:Uh, I don't know what he said. Uh, I havenever seen a transcript of the Grand Jury.Now, [sighs] what, what has happened post-June 17? Well, it was, I was under pretty clear instructions [laughs] not toreally to investigate this, that this wassomething that just could have been disastrous on the election if it had--all hell had broken loose, and I worked on atheory of containmentPRESIDENT:Sure.-22DEAN:to try to hold it right where it was.PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:There is no doubt I, I, uh, that, uh, I wastotally aware what the Bureau was doing at all times. I was totally aware of what theGrand Jury was doing.PRESIDENT:You I mean DEAN:I knew-what witnesses were going to becalled. I knew what they were going to beasked, and I had to. There just --PRESIDENT:Why did Petersen play the, play the game sostraight with us?DEAN:Because Petersen is a soldier. He playedHe kept me informed. He told me when we had problems, where we had problems and thelike. Uh, he believes in, in, in you. Hebelieves in this Administration. This Administration has made him. Uh, I don't think he's done anything improper, but hedid make sure the investigation was narroweddown to the very, veryPRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:fine-23PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:criminal things, which was a break for us.There is no doubt about it.PRESIDENT:He honestly feels that he did an adequatejob?DEAN:He, uh, they ran-that investigation out tothe fullest extent they could follow a lead [coughs]and, that was it.PRESIDENT:But the point is, where I suppose he couldbe criticized for not doing an adequate job. Why didn&#8482;t he call Haldeman? Why didn't he get a statement from Colson? Oh, they didget Colson.DEAN:That's right. But see, the thing is, isbased on their FBI interviews, there was noreason to follow up. There were no leadsthere. Colson said, "I have no knowledge of this" to the FBI. Uh, Strachan said, "I have no knowledge of you know, they didn&#8482;task Strachan any Watergate questions. Theyasked him about Segretti. Uh, they said, "What's your connection with Liddy?&#64258; and he just said, "Well, I, you know, I just, methim over there," and they never reallypressed him. They didn't, you know, they Look- Strachan appeared, uh, as a result ofsome coaching, he could be the dumbest paperpusher in the bowels of the, the White House.-24PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:All right. Now post-June 17th:Theseguys immediately it -is very, very [laughs] interesting. Liddy, for example, the Friday before&#352;-uh, on I guess it was the uh, uh,15th, uh, 16th of, uh, June&#352;had been in HenryPetersen's office with another member of my staff on campaign compliance [laughs]problems, uh, joking. After the incident,he went, he ran, uh, Kleindienst down at Burning Tree Country Club and told [laughs] him that &#64257;you've got to get my men out ofjail," which was kind of a--Kleindienstsaid, "Now, you get the hell out of here, kid, uh. Whatever you've got to say, justsay to somebody else. Don&#8482;t bother me,&#64258;and--But this has never come up.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Uh, Liddy said, said that, you know, if theyall got counsel instantly and said that, youknow, "We'll, we'll ride this thing out." All right, then they started making demands. &#64257;We&#8482;ve got to have attorneys' fees. Uh, wedon't have any money ourselves, and if--youare asking us to take this through the election." All right, so arrangements weremade through Mitchell, uh, initiating it, indiscussions--that I was present--that these, guys had to be taken-25care of. Their attorneys' fees had to bedone. Kalmbach was brought in. Uh,Kalmbach raised some cash. Uh, they we're obv-, uh, you know.PRESIDENT:They put that under the cover of a CubanCommittee or [unintelligible]DEAN:Yeah, they, they had a Cuban Committee andthey had--some of it was given to Hunt'slawyer, who in turn passed it out. This youknow, when Hunt's wife was flying to Chicago with ten thousand, she was actually, I understand after the fact now, was going-topass that money to, uh, one of the Cubans--to meet him in Chicago and pass it to somebody there.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] Maybe &#338; Well, whether it'smaybe too late to do anything about it, but I would certainly keep that, [laughs]that cover for whatever it's worth.,DEAN:I'llPRESIDENT:Keep the Committee. DEAN:Af--, after, well, that, that, that's PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]DEAN:the most troublesome post-thing, uh, because(1) Bob is involved in that; John is involved in that; I am involved in that;Mitchell is involved in that. And that's anobstruction of justice.-26PRESIDENT:In other words the fact that, uh,thatyou&#8482;re, you're, you're takingof witnesses.DEAN:That's right. Uh, PRESIDENT:How was Bob involved? DEAN:well, th-they ran out of money over there.Bob had three hundred andfifty thousanddollars in a safe over here that was really set aside for polling purposes. Uh, andthere was no other source of money, so theycame over here and said, "You all have got to give us some money."PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:I had to go to Bob and say, "Bob, you know,you've got to have some -- they need some money over there.&#64258; He said "What for?"Andso I had to tell him what it was for &#8218;causehe wasn't about to just send money over there willy-nilly. And, uh, John was involved in those discussions, and wedecided, you know, that, you know, thatthere was no price too high to pay to let this thing blow up in front of the election.PRESIDENT:I think you should handle that one prettyfast.DEAN:Oh, I think PRESIDENT:That issue, I mean.-27DEAN:I think we can.PRESIDENT:So that the three-fifty' went back to him.All it did was--DEAN:That's right. I think we can too. PRESIDENT:Who else [unintelligible]?DEAN:But, now, here, here's what's-happeningright now.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:What sort of brings matters to the&#352;This isthe one that's going to be a continual blackmail operation, by Hunt and Liddy and thePRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:Cubans. No doubt about it. And McCord, PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:who is, who is another one involved. McCordhas asked for nothing. Uh, McCord did ask to meet withsomebody, and it was Jack Caulfield, who is his old friend who'dgotten him hired over there. And, when,when, when Caulfield had him hired, he was a perfectly legitimate security man. And he wanted to know, well, you know, [coughs] hewanted to talk about commutation, and thingslike that. And as you know Colson-28has talked to, indirectly to Hunt aboutcommutation. [Clears throat] All thesethings are bad, in, in, in that they are problems, they are promises, they are commitments. They are the very sort ofthing that the Senate is going to be lookingfor. I don&#8482;t think they can find them, frankly.PRESIDENT:Pretty hard.DEAN:Pretty hard. Damn hard. It's all cash.Uh--PRESIDENT:Well, I mean, pretty hard as far as thewitnesses are concerned.DEAN:That's right. Now. The blackmail iscontinuing. Hunt called one of the lawyersfrom the Re-election Committee last Fridayto meet with him on -- over the weekend. The guy came in to me, to see me to get a message directly from Hunt to me, for thefirst time.PRESIDENT:Is Hunt out on bail? DEAN:Pardon? PRESIDENT:Is Hunt on bail?DEAN:Hunt is on bail. Correct. Uh, Hunt now isdemanding another seventy-two thousand dollars for his own personal expenses;-29another fifty thousand dollars to pay hisattorneys' fees; a, hundred, and twenty,some thousand dollars. Wants it, wanted it by the close of business yesterday. &#8218;Cause he says, &#64257;I am going to be sentenced onFriday, and I've got to be able to get myfinancial affairs in order.&#64258; I told this fellow O'Brien, "You came -- all right,you'' came to the wrong man, fellow. I'mnot involved in the money. Uh, I don't know a thing about it, can't help you.&#64258; Said, &#64257;You better scramble around elsewhere.&#64258;Now; O&#8482;Brien is, O'Brien is, is a ballplayer. He's been, he's carried tremendous water for us. UhPRESIDENT:He isn't Hunt's lawyer, is he?DEAN:No he is, he is our lawyer at theRe-election Committee.PRESIDENT:I see. Good.DEAN:So he's safe. There's no problem there.But it raises the whole question of Hunt now has made a direct threat against Ehrlichman, as a result of this. This is his blackmail.He says, "I will bring John Ehrlichman downto his knees and put him in jail. Uh, I have done enough seamy things for he andKrogh, uh, that they'll never survive it."PRESIDENT:What's that, on Ellsberg?-30DEAN:Ellsberg, and apparently, some other things.I don&#8482;t know the full extent of it. Uh&#352;PRESIDENT:I don't know about anything else. DEAN:I don't know either, and I (laughs] almosthate to learn some of thesePRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:things. So that's, that's that situation.Now, where are the soft points? How manypeople know about this? Well, uh, well, letme go one step further in this, this whole thing. TheCubans that were used in the Watergate were also the same Cubans thatHunt and Liddy used for this CaliforniaEllsbergthing, for the break-in out there.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:So they are, they are aware of that. Howhigh their knowledge is, is something else. Hunt and Liddy, of course, are totally aware of, of, of it, and the fact that, uh, it wasright out of the White House.PRESIDENT:I don&#8482;t know whatthe hell we did thatfor.DEAN:I don't either.-31PRESIDENT:What in.the name of God, did that--DEAN:Mr. President, there have been a couple ofthings around here that I have gotten wind of. Uh, there was at one time a desire to do a second-story job on the BrookingsInstitute where they had the PentagonPapers. Now I flew to California because I was told that John had instructed it and hesaid, "I really hadn't. It is amisimpression, that for Christ's sake, turn it off." And I did. I came back and turned it off. Because, you know the, when you,you know, if the risk is minimal and the,and the gain is fantastic, it's something else. But with a low risk and, uh, no gain,uh, gee, it's just, uh, it's rot worth it.But who knows about this all now? All right, you've got [clears throat] the Cubans' lawyer, a man by the name of Rothblatt, whois a no good, publicity seeking, son-of-a-bitch, to be very frank about it. He has had to be turned down and tuned off. He was canned by his own people 'cause they didn'ttrust him. They were trying to run adifferent route than he wanted to run. He didn't want them to plead guilty. He wantsto represent them before the Senate. So F.Lee Bailey, who was the partner of one of the, one of the men representing McCord, uh, got in and, and cooled Rothblatt down. SoF. Lee, Lee Bailey's gotknowledge.Uh,-32Hunt's lawyer, a man by the name of Bittman,who&#8482;s an excellent criminal lawyer from theDemocratic era of Bobby Kennedy, he's got knowledge. Uh--PRESIDENT:Do you think, do you think, that he's gotsome? How much?DEAN:Well, everybodynot only, all the, allthe direct knowledge that Hunt and Liddyhave, as well as all the hearsay "A. theyhave.PRESIDENT:I [unintelligible] DEAN:Uh, you've got the two lawyers over at theRe-election Committee who did aninvestigation to find out the facts. Slowly, they got the whole picture. They are, I,they're solid, but they're --PRESIDENT:But they know. DEAN:But they know. Uh, you've got, then, anawful lot of -- all the principals involvedknow. Uh, Hunt--Some' people's wives know.PRESIDENT:Sure. DEAN:Uh, there's no doubt about that. Mrs. Huntwas the savviest woman in the world. Shehad the whole picture together.PRESIDENT:Did she?-33DEAN:Yeah, it, uh, --Apparently, she was thepillar of strength in that family before thedeath, and, uh--PRESIDENT:Great sadness. The basis, as a matter offact [clears throat] there was somediscussion over there with somebody about,uh, Hunt's problems after his wife died and I said, of course, commutation could beconsidered on the basis of his wife, andthat is the only discussion I ever had in that light.DEAN:Right. Uh, so that, that's it. That&#8482;s the,the extent of the knowledge. Now, where,where are the soft spots on this? Well, first of all, there's the, there's theproblem of the continued blackmail.PRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:which will not only go on now, it'll go onwhen these people are in prison, and it willcompound the obstruction of justicesituation. It&#8482;ll cost money. It's dangerous. Nobody, nothing -- people around here are not pros at this sort of thing.This is the sort of thing Mafia people cando: washing money, getting clean money, and things like-34that, uh&#352;we&#8482;re&#352;We just don&#8482;t know aboutthose things, because we're not used to, youknow&#352;we are not criminals and not used to dealing in that business. It's, uh, it's, uh--PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:It's a tough thing to know how to do. PRESIDENT:Maybe we can't even do that.DEAN:That's right. It's a real problem as towhether we could even do it. Plus there's a real problem in raising money. Uh, Mitchell has been working on raising some money. Uh,feeling he's got, you know, he's got one,he's one of the ones with the most to lose. Uh, but there's no denying the fact that the White.House, and, uh, Ehrlichman,Haldeman, Dean are involved in some of the early money decisions.PRESIDENT:How much money do you need?DEAN:I would say these people are going to cost,uh, a million dollars over the next, uh, two years.PRESIDENT:We could get that.DEAN:Uh huh.-35PRESIDENT:You, on the money, if you need the,money, Imean, uh, you could get the money. Let&#8482;ssay--DEAN:Well, I think that we're going PRESIDENT:What I meant is, you could, you could get amillion dollars. And you could get it incash. I, I know where it could be gotten.DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:I mean it's not easy, but it, could be done.But, uh, the question is who the hell would handle it?DEAN:That's right. Uh--PRESIDENT:Any ideas on that?DEAN:Well, I would think that would be somethingI that Mitchell ought to be charged with.PRESIDENT:I would think so too.DEAN:And get some, get some pros to help him. PRESIDENT:Let me say, there shouldn't be a lot ofpeople running around getting money. Weshould set up a little--DEAN:Well, he's got one person doing it who I 'amnot sure is---36PRESIDENT:Who is that?DEAN:He&#8482;s got Fred LaRue, uh, doing it. Now Fredstarted out going out trying toPRESIDENT:No. DEAN:solicit money from all kinds of people.Now, I learned about that, and I said,PRESIDENT:No. DEAN:"My God,"PRESIDENT:No.DEAN:"It&#8482;s just awful. Don&#8482;t do it." PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Uh, people are going to ask what the moneyis for. He's workingHe's apparentlytalked to Tom Pappas.PRESIDENT:I know.DEAN:And Pappas has, uh, agreed to come up with asizeable amount, I gather, from, fromPRESIDENT:Yeah.-37DEAN:Mitchell.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Well, what do you need, then? Youneed, uh, you don&#8482;t need a million right away, but you need a mill.ion. Is that right?DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:You need a million in cash, don't you? Ifyou want to put that through, would you putthat through, uh -- this is thinking outloud here for a momentwould you put that through the Cuban Committee?DEAN:Um, no.PRESIDENT:Or would you just do this through a[Unintelligible] that it's going to be, uh, well, it's cash money, and so forth. How, ifthat ever comes out, are you going to handleit? Is the Cuban Committee an obstruction of justice, if, they want to help?DEAN:Well, they've got a pr--, they've gotpriests, and theyPRESIDENT:Would you like to put, I mean, would that,would that give a little bit of a cover, for example?DEAN:That would give some for the Cubans andpossibly Hunt.PRESIDENT:Yeah.-38DEAN:Uh, then you&#8482;ve got Liddy, and McCord isnot, not accepting any money. So, he's, heis not a bought man right now.PRESIDENT:Okay. DEAN:All right. Let, let me, uh,PRESIDENT:Go ahead.DEAN:continue a little bit here now. The, uh, I,when I say this is a, a growing cancer, uh,I say it for reasons like this. Bud Krogh,in his testimony before the Grand Jury, was forced to perjure himself. Uh, he is haunted by it. Uh, Bud said, "I haven't hada pleasant day on the job."PRESIDENT:Huh? Said what? DEAN:He said, "I have not had a pleasant day onmy job.&#64258; Uh, he talked, apparently, he saidto me, "I told my wife all about this," he said. "The, uh, the curtain may ring down one of these days, and, uh, I may have toface the music, which I'm perfectly willingto do.&#64258; Uh--PRESIDENT:What did he perjure himself on, John? DEAN:His, did, uh, did he know the Cubans? Hedid. UhPRESIDENT:He said he didn't?-39DEAN:That's right. They didn&#8482;t press himhard,-or that he--PRESIDENT:He might be able to--I am just trying tothink. Perjury is an awful hard rap to prove. He could say that I--Well, go ahead.DEAN:[Coughs)Well, so that's, that's the first,that's one perjury. Now, Mitchell and, and, uh, Magruder are potential perjuries. Thereis always the possibility of any one ofthese individuals blowing. Hunt. Liddy. Liddy is in jail right now; he's serving his&#352;trying to get good time right now. Ithink Liddy is probably, in his, his ownbizarre way, the strongest of all of them. Uh, so there's, there is that possibility.PRESIDENT:Well, your, your major, your major guy tokeep under control is Hunt.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:I think. Because he knowsDEAN:He knows so much.PRESIDENT:about a lot of other things. DEAN:He knows so much. Right. Uh, he could sinkChuck Colson. Apparently, apparently he isquite distressed with Colson.-40-He thinks Colson has abandoned him. Uh,Colson was to meet with him when he was outthere, after, now he had left the White House. He met with him through his lawyer. Hunt raised the question; he wanted money.Colson&#8482;s lawyer told him that Colson wasn'tdoing anything with money, and Hunt took offense with that immediately, that, uh, uh,that Colson had abandoned him. Uh--PRESIDENT:Don't you, just looking at the immediateproblem, don't you have to have -- handle Hunt's financial situationDEAN:I, I think that's,PRESIDENT:damn soon? DEAN:that is, uh, I talked to Mitchell aboutthat last night,PRESIDENT:Mitchell. DEAN:and, and, uh, I told-- PRESIDENT:Might as well. May have the rule you've gotto keep the cap on the bottle that much,DEAN:That&#8482;s right; that&#8482;s right. PRESIDENT:in order to have any options. DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Either that or let it all blow right now.-41DEAN:Well that, you know, that's the, that's thequestion. Uh--PRESIDENT:Now, go ahead. The others. You've gotHunt;DEAN:All right, now we've gotPRESIDENT:you've got Krogh, and you&#8482;ve got--DEAN:Now we've got Kalmbach. [Coughs] PRESIDENT:Yeah, that's a tough one.DEAN:Kalmbach receivedPRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] DEAN:at the close, of the, of the, uh, '.68campaign, in January of '69, he got amillion seven dollars, uh, a million sevenhundred thousand dollars to be custodian for. That came down from New York. It wasplaced in safe deposit boxes here.. Uh,some other people were on the boxes, and ultimately, the money was taken out to California. All right, there is knowledgeof the fact that he did start with a millionseven. Several people know this. Now since '69, he's spent a good deal of this money and, and, uh, accounting for it is going tobe very difficult for Herb. For example,he's spent -- oh - close to five hundred thousand dollars on private polling. Nowthat just opens up a whole new-42thing. It's not illegal, but, uh, it's moreof the same sort of, thing.PRESIDENT:I don't think that poses a hell of aproblem, does it?DEAN:No, I don't think so. Uh--PRESIDENT:Practically everybody does polling.DEAN:That's right, uh, it&#8482;s not, there's nothingcriminal about it. It was private polled.It was,PRESIDENT:Nothing DEAN:uh, proper,money. PRESIDENT:The law didn't, the law didn't[unintelligible] [coughs] polled all throughthe years.DEAN:That's right. Uh, he sent four hundredthousand dollars, as he's described it tome, somewhere in the South for another candidate. I assume this was four hundred, uh, that wentPRESIDENT:Wallace.DEAN:to Wallace. Right. Uh, he has maintained,uh, a, a man I only know by the name of &#64257;Tony&#64258;, who is the fellow who did the, theChappaquidick study andPRESIDENT:I heard about that. DEAN:other, other odd jobs like that. Nothingillegal,-43PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:uh, but closer. Uh, I don't know ofanything that Herb has done that is illegal, other than the fact that he doesn't want to blow the whistle on a lot of people, and mayfind himself in a perjury situation.PRESIDENT:Well, if he, uh, he--could because he willbe asked about that money?DEAN:He will. What'll happen is, when they callup there and he of course has no immunity, uh, they'll say, "How did you happen--how did you pay Mr. Segretti?&#64258; "Well, I hadcash on hand.&#64258; "Well, how much cash did youhave on hand?"PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:Uh where does he go from there? "Where didyou get the cash?"PRESIDENT:Uh huh. DEAN:A full series of questions. His bankrecords indicate he had cash on hand becausesome of these were set up in trustee accounts.PRESIDENT:How would you handle him, then, John. Forexample, would-44you just have him put the whole thing out?DEAN:[Draws breath]PRESIDENT:I don&#8482;t think so. I mean I don't mind thefive hundred thousand dollars and I don't mind the four hundred thousand dollarsDEAN:No, that,PRESIDENT:for activities [unintelligible] DEAN:that, that, uh, that doesn't bother meeither. There's -- as I say, Herb'sproblems arePRESIDENT:There&#8482;s a surplus-- DEAN:politically embarrassing, but not as--notcriminal.PRESIDENT:Well, they're embarrassing, sure -- he, hejust handled matters that were between thecampaigns before anything was done. Therewere surveys, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. There is no need to account for that. No law requires him toaccount for that.DEAN:Right. Uh, now PRESIDENT:The source of the money, there's noillegality In having a surplus, is there, incash after--DEAN:No, the money --It has always been argued byStans-45--came from pre-conventionPRESIDENT:Pre-convention.DEAN:for the -- and pre-primary for the, for the,uh,PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:'68 race.PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:It was just set aside.PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:Uh, that, that all can be explained. Ithink that the--PRESIDENT:All right. How do your othervulnerabilities go together?DEAN:The other vulnerabilities: We've got a, uh,runaway Grand Jury up in the SouthernDistrict.PRESIDENT:Yeah. I heard. DEAN:They're after Mitchell and Stans on somesort of bribe or influence peddlingPRESIDENT:On Vesco.DEAN:with Vesco.-46PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:Uh, they're also going to try to dragEhrlichman into that. Apparently, Ehrlichman had some meetings with Vesco, also. Uh, Don Nixon, Jr., came in to seeJohn a couple of times, uh, about theproblem.PRESIDENT:Not about the complaint.DEAN:That, there's, uh--the fact of the matteris--PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] about a job. DEAN:That&#8482;s right. And, and, and, uh, I--PRESIDENT:We&#8482;re is it--Ehrlichman's totally to blameon that.DEAN:Yeah, well, I think the White HousePRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]DEAN:No one has done anything for-- PRESIDENT:--Vesco. Matter of-&#338;not for the prosecutor. DEAN:No. [Coughs] The, uh--PRESIDENT:Would Ehrlichman, incidentally, have toappear there?DEAN:Before that Grand Jury? Yes. He could verywell.-47PRESIDENT:Uh, we couldn't presume immunity there?DEAN:Not really. Uh, criminal chargePRESIDENT:Criminal charge--Yeah, well [unintelligible]charge -[unintelligible]. Go ahead.DEAN:Right. That's a little different. [Clearsthroat] I think that would be dynamite todefend, uhPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:against that.PRESIDENT:Also, he, he distinguishes it. He says,&#64257;It&#8482;s a criminal charge; I&#8482;ll be glad to go up.&#64258; Use the FlaniganDEAN:Right.PRESIDENT:analogy. DEAN:Right, uh, [clears throat] well that's,that's pretty much the overall picture, andprobably the most troublesome thing -- well the Segretti thing. 'Let&#8482;s get down to that. I think, Bob has indicated to me hetold you a lot of, of it, that he, indeed,did authorize it. He didn't authorize anything like ultimately involved.PRESIDENT:Yeah.-48DEAN:He was aware of it. He was aware thatChapin and Strachan were looking forsomebody.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Again, this is one that, uh, it is potentialthat, Dwight Cha--, Chapin could have afelony charge against him in this',because he&#8482;s--PRESIDENT:Felony?DEAN:Felony, because he has to, he has todisprove a negative. The negative is that he didn't control and direct Segretti.PRESIDENT:Would the felony be in perjury again? Or--DEAN:Uh, no, the felony this in this instancebeing a potential use of the, one of thecivil rights statutes, for anybody whointerferes with a candidate for, uh, national office&#352;no, in--,interferes with their campaign in any way.PRESIDENT:Why isn't that a civil rights statute usedto pick up any of these clowns that were demonstrating against us, then?DEAN:Well, I have, I've, I've argued that theyuse that for that very purpose. Uh---49PRESIDENT:Really?'DEAN:Yes, I have. And, uh--PRESIDENT:We were, those were, uh, that wasinterfering with the campaign.DEAN:That's exactly right. Exactly right, Butthey--PRESIDENT:Segretti -- But I think, uh, I'm notasconcerned about that because it's so bad theway it's been put out on the PR side, thenI think it will eventually end up on the PR side very confused. And it&#8482;ll look bad when that's attributed, but I don't, I can&#8482;t seethe criminal thing, but I may be wrong.DEAN:Well here, what really, what really bothersme is that this, this growing situation. AsI say, it is growing because of the, thecontinued need to provide support for thePRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:Watergate people who are going toPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:hold us up for everything they've got, PRESIDENT:That's right.-50DEAN:and the need for some people to perjurethemselves as they go down the road here.Uh, if this thing ever blows, and we're in a cover-up situation, I think it'd be extremely damaging to you, uh, and, uh, the,uh--PRESIDENT: Sure. DEAN:UhPRESIDENT:The whole concept of Administration justiceDEAN:That's right, uh PRESIDENT:We cannot have DEAN:That's what really troubles me. Forexample, what happens if it starts breaking,and they do find a criminal case against a Haldeman, a Dean, a Mitchell, an Ehrlichman?Uh, that is--PRESIDENT:Well if it really comes down to that, wecannot, maybe We&#8482;d have to shed it in order to contain it again.DEAN:[Clears throat] That's right. I'm comingdown to the, what I really think is that, that, Bob and John and John Mitchell and I should sit down and spend a day, or howeverlong, to figure out (1) how this can becarved away from you, so it does not damage you or the Presidency. 'Cause it justcan't. And-51it's not something, it, you're not involvedin it and it's something you shouldn't--PRESIDENT:That is true. DEAN:I know, sir, it is. Well I can just tellfrom our conversations that, you know, theseare things that you have no knowledge of.PRESIDENT:The absuidity of the whole damned thing. DEAN:But it--PRESIDENT:bugging and so on. Well, let me say I amkeenly aware of the fact that, uh, Colson, et al., and so forth, were doing their best to get information and so forth and so on.But they all knew very well they weresupposed to comply with the law.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:No question.DEAN:Uh PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] you think--you feel thatreally the man, the trigger man was Colsonon this then?DEAN:Well,.no, he was one of a&#352;he was just in thechain. He-52was, he helped push the thing.PRESIDENT:Called [unintelligible] and said, "We've gota, we've got a good plan.&#64258; I don't know what the Christ he would be doing. Oh, I&#8482;ll bet you. I know why. That was at the timeof ITT. He was trying to get somethinggoing there,because ITT, they were bugging us. I mean they wereDEAN:Right.PRESIDENT:giving us hell. DEAN:Well, I know, I know he used, uh, PRESIDENT:Hunt to go out there?DEAN:Hunt.PRESIDENT:I knew about that. DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:I did know about it. Uh, I knew that therewas, there was something going on there,DEAN:Right. PRESIDENT:but I didn't know it was Hunt.DEAN:Right. Uh, that&#8482;s what re--what reallytroubles me is, you know, (1) will this thing not break some day and-53PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:the whole thing--PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:you know, they just, I think if it startscrumbling, fingers will be pointing. And,PRESIDENT:That&#8482;s right.DEAN:uh, PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:Bob will be accusedof things he has neverheard ofPRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:and then he'll have to disprove it, andit&#8482;ll just get nasty and it'll be aPRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:real, uh,PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:real bad situation. And the person who willbe hurt by it most will be you andPRESIDENT:Of course.DEAN:the Presidency, and I just don't think--PRESIDENT:First, because I am expected to know this,and I am supposed to check these things. And so forth-54DEAN:That&#8482;s right.PRESIDENT:and so on. But let's, let's, let's comeback. Go further. Sure. Yes indeed. But what are your feelings, yourself, John? You know pretty well what they all say. Whatare your feelings about the options?DEAN:I am not confident that, uh, we can ridethrough this. I think there are t--, I thinkthere are soft spots.PRESIDENT:You used to feel comfortable. DEAN:Well, I feel, I felt, I felt comfortable forthis reason. I've noticed of recent -- sincethe publicity has increased on, on thisthing again, with the Gray hearings, that everybody is now starting to watch out fortheir own behind.PRESIDENT:That&#8482;s right. DEAN:Everyone&#8482;s pulling in. They're gettingtheir own counsel. More counsel are gettingPRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:involved. PRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:Uh, you know, "How do I protect my ass?"-55PRESIDENT:Well, they're scared.DEAN:They're scared and that's just, You know,that&#8482;s bad. We were able to hold it for a long time.PRESIDENT:Yeah, I know.DEAN:Uh, another thing is, you know, my facilitynow to deal with the multitude of people I have been dealing with has been hamperedbecause of Gray's blowing me up into thefront page.PRESIDENT:Your cover is broken. DEAN:That's right and it's with, it was&#352;PRESIDENT:[unintelligible] cover. All right. Now.So on. So, so what you really come down to is, what in the hell, in the hell will youdo? Let's, let us suppose that you andHaldeman and Ehrlichman and Mitchell say, uh, "We can't hold this.&#64258; What, what then are you going to say? Are you going to putout a complete disclosure? Isn't that thebest plan?DEAN:Well, one way to do it is to-- PRESIDENT:That'd be my view on it.-56DEAN:One way to do it is for you to in- tell theAttorney General that you finally, you know,really, this is the first time you are getting all the pieces together. Uh--PRESIDENT:Ask for another grand jury?DEAN:Ask for another grand jury. The way itshould be done though, is a way that--for example, I think that we could avoid, uh,criminal liability for countless people andthe ones that did get it, it could be minimal.PRESIDENT:How?DEAN:Well, I think by just thinking it allthrough first as to how, you know, some people could be granted immunity, uh--PRESIDENT:Like Magruder?DEAN:Yeah. To come forward. Uh, but some peopleare going to have to go to jail. That's the long and short of it, also.PRESIDENT:Who? Let's talk about that.DEAN:All right. Uh, I think I could, for one. PRESIDENT:You go to jail?-57DEAN:That&#8482;s right.PRESIDENT:Oh, hell no. I can't see how you can. ButI--no,DEAN:Well, because-- PRESIDENT:I can't see how, thatLet me say I can'tsee how a legal case could be made againstyou, J--,uh, John.DEAN:It'd be, it'd be tough but, you know, uh,PRESIDENT:Well.DEAN:I can see people pointing fingers, you know,to get it out of their own, put me in the impossible position, disproving too manynegatives.PRESIDENT:Oh, no. Uh, let me say I--not becauseyou're here--But just looking at it from acold legal standpoint: you are a lawyer, youwere a counsel--you were doing what you were doing as a counsel, and you were not, uh,DEAN:[Clears throat]PRESIDENT:doing anything like that. You mean--Whatwould you go to jail on, [unintelligible]?DEAN:The obstruct--, the obstruction of justice. PRESIDENT:The obstruction of justice?-58DEAN:That&#8482;s the only thing that bothers me.PRESIDENT:Well, I don&#8482;t know. I think that one. Ithink that, I feel, could be cut off at the pass. Maybe the obstruction of justice--DEAN:It could be a--you know how--one of thethat's, that s why-[sighs]PRESIDENT:Sometimes it's well to give them DEAN:[Sighs]PRESIDENT:something, and then they don't want thebigger fish then.DEAN:That's right. I think that, uh, I thinkthat with proper coordination with theDepartment of Justice, Henry Petersen is theonly man I know bright enough and knowledgeable enough in the criminal lawsand the process that could really tell ushow this could be put together so it did the maximum to carve it away with a minimum damage to individuals involved.PRESIDENT:Petersen doesn&#8482;t knowDEAN:That s what I think. PRESIDENT:the whole story? DEAN:No, I know he doesn't now. I know hedoesn't now. I am talking about somebodywho I have over the years grown to-59have enough faith in. [Clears throat] It'spossible that he'd have to, he'd have to,uh--put him in a very difficult situation as the Head of the Criminal Division of the United States Department of Justice, and theoath of office--PRESIDENT:Tell me--Talking about your obstruction ofjustice role, I don't see it. I can't seeit. You're&#352;DEAN:Well, I've been a con--, I have been aconduit for information on, on taking care of people out there who are guilty ofcrimes.PRESIDENT:Oh, you mean like the uh, oh-- theblackmail.DEAN:The blackmail. Right.PRESIDENT:Well, I wonder if that part of it can't beI wonder if that doesn't--let me put it frankly: I wonder if that doesn't have to becontinued?DEAN:[Clears throat] PRESIDENT:Let me put it this way:let us suppose thatyou get, you, you get the million bucks, andyou get the proper way to handle it, and youcould hold that side.DEAN:Uh huh.-60PRESIDENT:It would seem to me that would beworthwhile.DEAN:[clears throat] PRESIDENT:Now we have DEAN:Well, that's, yeah that'sPRESIDENT:one problem; you've got a problem here. Youhave the problem of Hunt and, uh, his, uh, his clemency.DEAN:That's right. And you're going to have theclemency problem for the others. They all would expect1to be out and that may put you in a position that's justPRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:untenable at some point. You know, theWatergate Hearings just over, Hunt nowdemanding clemency or is he going to blow.And politically, it'd be impossible for, you know, you to do it. You know, after everybody--PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:I am not sure that you will ever be able todeliver on the clemency. It may be just too hot.-61PRESIDENT:You can&#8482;t do it, till after the '74elections, that's for sure. But even thenDEAN:[Clears throat] PRESIDENT:your point is that even then you couldn't doit.DEAN:That's right. It may further involve you ina way you shouldn't be involved in this.PRESIDENT:No it's wrong; that's for sure.DEAN:Well, whatever--you know I--there've beensome bad judgments made. There've been some necessary judgments made. UhPRESIDENT:Before the election.DEAN:Before the election and, in a way, thenecessary ones, you know, before the election. There--you know, we've, this wasPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:--to me there was no way PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:that, uh--PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:But to burden this second Administration-62PRESIDENT:We're all in on it.DEAN:was something that--It's something that isnot going to go away.PRESIDENT:No it isn't. DEAN:It is not going to go away, sir.PRESIDENT:Not going to go away, it is--the idea that,uh, that, uh, well, that, uh, that people are going to get tired of it and all thatsort of thing--DEAN:Anything will spark it back into life. It'sgot to be, uh, it's got to be--PRESIDENT:Well, it's too much to the partisan interestof others to spark it back into life.DEAN:And it seems to me the only way that-- PRESIDENT:Who else, though? Let's, let's leave youand--I don't, I don't, I don&#8482;t think on the,on, uh, on the obstruction of justice thing&#352; I think that one we can handle. I, I don&#8482;t know why I feel that way, but I--DEAN:Well, it is possible that I--PRESIDENT:I, I think you may be overplaying, but whoelse, uh, who else, who else do you think has, uh-63DEAN:Potential criminal liability?PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:I think Ehrlichman does. I think that, uh,I thinkPRESIDENT:Why Ehrlichman? What'd he do?DEAN:Because this conspiracy to burglarize the,uh, uh, Ellsberg office.PRESIDENT:You meanthat, that is, provided Huntbreaks,DEAN:Well, uh, the, the funny--let me saysomething interesting about that. Within the files--PRESIDENT:Oh, I saw that. The picture.DEAN:Yeah, the picture. That, see, that's notall that buried. And, while we can, we'vegotI think we've got it buried, there isno telling when it's going to pop up. Uh, the Cubans, uh, could start this whole thing. Uh, when the Ervin Committee startsrunning down why this mysterioustelephonewas here at the White House, uh, listed in the name of a secretary--one of these, some of these secretaries have a little ideaabout this, and they can be broken down justPRESIDENT:Sure.-64DEAN:so fast. That s another thing I missed,missed in the cycle--in the circle. Uh,Liddy's secretary, for example, is knowledgeable. Magruder's secretary is knowledgeable.PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:Uh PRESIDENT:So Ehrlichman on the, uh--DEAN:But what I am coming to you today with is: Idon't have a plan of how to solve it right now, but I think it's at the juncture that we should begin to think in terms of, of howto cut the losses; how to minimize thefurther growth of this thing, rather than further compound it by, you know, ultimatelypaying these guys forever.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:I think we've got to look PRESIDENT:But at the moment, don't you agree thatyou'd better get the Hunt thing? I mean,that's worth it, at the moment.DEAN:That, that's worth buying time on, right.-65PRESIDENT:And that's buying time on, I agree.DEAN:the, the Grand Jury is going to reconvenenext week after Sirica sentences. Uh, but that's why I think that, you know, that-- John and Bob have met with me. They'venever met with Mitchell on this. We'venever had a real down and out with everybody that, uh, has the most to lose. And themost--and it is the most danger for you tohave them have criminal liability. I think Bob has a potential criminal liability, frankly. I think--in other words, a lot ofthese people could be indicted. They mightnever,PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:might never, uh, be convicted; but just thethought ofPRESIDENT:Suppose-- DEAN:indictments--PRESIDENT:Suppose that they are indicted in this.Suppose--DEAN:I think that would be devastating.-66PRESIDENT:Suppose the worst--that Bob is indicted andEhrlichman is indicted. And, I must say,maybe we just better then try to tough it through. You get my point.DEAN:That's right. ThatPRESIDENT:if, if, if, for example, our, uh, our--say,well, let's cut our losses and you say we're going to go down the road, see if we can cutour losses, and no more blackmail and allthe rest, and the thing blows and they indict Bob and the rest. Jesus, you'd never recover from that, John.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:It's better to fight it out instead. Yousee, that's the other thing, the otherthing. It's better just to fight it out,and not let people testify, so forth and so on. Now, on the other hand, we realize that we have these weaknesses&#352;that, uh, we, we'vegot this weakness in terms of--blackmail.DEAN:It's&#352;what--if we you know, there, there aretwo routes, you know: One is to figure out how to cut the losses and, and, and minimizethe, the human impact and get you up and out-67and away from it, in any way, uh, in, in away that would never come back to haunt you.Uh, that is one, one general alternative. The other is to go down the road, just hunker down, fight it at every corner, everyturn, uh, don't let people testify, cover itup is what we're really talking about. Just keep it buried, and just hope that we can doit, hope that we make good decisions at theright time, and keep our heads cool, uh, we make the right moves, uh--PRESIDENTAnd just take the heat.DEAN:And just take the heat.PRESIDENT:Now, with the second line of attack. Youdiscussed this though I do want you to stillconsider my scheme of having--, you briefthe Cabinet, just in very general terms, and the leaders&#352;very general terms--and maybe some, some very general statement withregards to my investigation. Answerquestions, and to, and to basically on the question of what they told you, not what you know.DEAN:Right.-68PRESIDENT:Haldeman is not involved. Ehrlichman--DEAN:Oh, I can--you know--if, if we go thatroute, sir, I can, I can give a show that, you know, there&#8482;s uh, we can sell, you know, just about like we were selling Wheaties onour position. There's no--PRESIDENT:The problem that you have are these, uh,mine fields down the road. I think the mostdifficult problem is the, are the, are the,are the guys that are going to jail. I think you're right about that. I agree. Now. And also the fact that we're not goingto be able to give them clemency.DEAN:That's right. How long will they take--How long will they sit there? I don't know.We don't know what they will be sentencedto. There's always a chancePRESIDENT:Thirty years, isn't it? Maximum? DEAN:It could be. You know, they haven'tannounced yet, but it, uh--PRESIDENT:Isn't that what the potential is? DEAN:Uh, it's even higher than that. It's aboutfifty years, with all thePRESIDENT:So ridiculous.-69DEAN:Oh. Well, you know, what's so incredibleis, the, these fellows who, who sh--PRESIDENT:People break and enter, and so forth, andget two years.DEAN:Well, the other thing--PRESIDENT:No, no weapons. No results. What the hellare they talking about?DEAN:The, the individuals who are charged withshooting John Stennis are on the street.They were given, you know, uh, one was put out on his personal recognizance rather than bond. They've got these fellows all stuckwith hundred thousand dollar bonds. Thesame judge&#352;Sirica--let one guy, who, who's [laughs] charged with shooting a UnitedStates Senator, out on the street.PRESIDENT:Sirica did? DEAN:Yeah. It's just, it's phenomenal. PRESIDENT:What is the matter with him? I thought hewas a hard liner judge.DEAN:He's a, he is just a, a peculiar animal,and, uh, he set, set the bond for one of the others--I don't have all-70the facts, but he set the bond for one ofthe others&#352;around fifty or sixty thousanddollars. But still, that guy is in, but didn't make bond--but, you know, sixty thousand dollars as opposed to a hundredthousand dollars for these guys isphenomenal.PRESIDENT:When could you have this meeting with thesefellows, as I think, that time is of theessence, in my opinion.DEAN:[Clears throat] PRESIDENT:Could you do it this afternoon?DEAN:Well, Mitchell isn't here, and--PRESIDENT:Tomorrow? DEAN:It might be, might be worth it to have himcome down. And, now, I think that Bob andJohn did not want to talk to, to, John, about this, John Mitchell. And I don't believe they've had any conversations withhim about it.PRESIDENT:Well, let me get Haldeman in here now. DEAN:Bob and I have talked about just what we'retalking about this morning. I told him Ithought that you should have the facts, andhe agrees. 'Cause we've got some tough calls down the road if we&#352;-71PRESIDENT:Let me say, though that Hunt[unintelligible] hard line, and that aconvicted felon is going to go out and squeal about this [unintelligible] decision [unintelligible] turns on that.DEAN:Well, we can always, you know, on the otherside, we can always charge them with blackmailing us, and it's, you know, this isabsurd stuff they're saying, and--PRESIDENT:That's right. You see, even the way you putit out here, of course if it all came out, it may never, it may not never, never getthere.[Haldeman enters the room.]PRESIDENT:I was talking to John about this, uh, thiswhole situation, and I think we, uh, so thatwe can get away from the bits and pieces that have broken out. He is right in having--in, in, uh, recommending that, that,uh, that there-be a meeting at the veryfirst possible time. Ehrlichman, and now Ehrlichman's gone on to California but, uh, is, today, uh--is tomorrow Thursday?HALDEMAN:Uh, heJohn doesn't go until Friday.DEAN:Friday-- PRESIDENT:Well, in any event, could we do it Thursday?This meeting? This meeting--you can't do ittoday, can you?-72DEAN:I don't think so. I was suggesting ameeting with Mitchell--PRESIDENT:Mitchell, Ehrlichman, yourself and Bob,that's all. Now, Mitchell has to be there because, uh, uh, he is seriously involvedand, uh, we're trying to keep, uh.' we'vegot to see how we, uh, how we handle it from here on. We are in the process of having todetermine which way to go and, uh, John hasthought it through as well as he can. I do, I don't want Moore there on this occasion.DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:You haven't told Moore all of this, haveyou?DEAN:Moore's got, uh, by being with me, has morebits and pieces. I've had to give himPRESIDENT: Right. DEAN:because he is making PRESIDENT: Right.DEAN:judgments that, uh--PRESIDENT:Well, the-point is, once you get down to thePR, once you decide what you're going to do, then we can let him-73know, and so forth and so on. But it is thekind of thing--I think what really has tohappen is for you to sit down with those three and for you to tell them exactly what you told me.DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:It may take him about thirty-five orforty-five minutes. In other words he knows,John, uh, uh, knows about everything andalso what all the, uh, what all the potential criminal liabilities are, you know, whether it's uh--what's it like thatthing--what about, uh, obstruction--DEAN:Obstruction of justice. Right. PRESIDENT:So forth and so on. And, uh, the, uh--Ithink, I think that's--Then we've got to,uh, see what the line is. Whether the line is one of, uh, continuing to, uh, run a, try to run a total stonewall, and take the heatfrom that, uh, having in mind the fact that,uh, there are vulnerable points there; the vulnerable points being, that, well, the first vulnerable points would be obvious: Inother words it would be if, uh, uh, one ofthe, uh, defendants, particularly Hunt, of course, who is the most vulnerable in myopinion, might, uh, blow the whistle, andhe, he--and his price is pretty high, but at least, uh, we should, we should-74buy the time on that, uh, as I pointed outto John. Apparently&#352;Who, who is dealingwith Hunt at the moment now that Colson's [unintelligible]DEAN:Well, uh, Mitchell's lawyer-and, uh,PRESIDENT:Colson's lawyer [unintelligible]DEAN:Colson's lawyer, both. PRESIDENT:familiar with him. Hunt has at least got toknow before he is sentenced, that he's--HALDEMAN:Who's Colson's lawyer? [Characterizationdeleted] in his law firm?DEAN:Shapiro. Right. Who lied to the, youknow, who just--The other day he came upand--HALDEMAN:Colson's,told him everything, hasn't he?DEAN:Yup, I gather he has. Uh, the other thingthat bothered me about that is that he's, uh, a chatter. He came up to Fred Fielding, of my office, at Colson's going away party.I didn&#8482;t go over there. It was over at theBlair House the other night. And he said to, uh, Fred, he said, "Well, Chuck has had some mighty serious words with, uh, his, hisfriend Howard and had some mighty seriousmessages back." Now, you know, what's a lawyer--how does he know what Fieldingknows? 'Cause Fielding knows virtuallynothing. [Laughs]PRESIDENT:Well, anyway. HALDEMAN:That's, that's where your dangers lie, is inall these stupid-75human errors developing.PRESIDENT:That's very--DEAN:That's&#352;that-- PRESIDENT:Well, the point is Bob, let's face it, thesecretaries know; the assistants know.There's a lot of the, many of the damnprincipals may be hard as a rock, but you never know when they're going to crack.But, so, we'll see, we&#8482;ll see. First you'vegot the Hunt problem. That ought to be handled.DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Uh, incidentally, I do not think Colsonshould sit in this meeting. Do you agree?DEAN:No. I would agree.PRESIDENT:Okay. Uh, how then--Who does sit and talkto Colson? Because somebody has to, shouldn't we talk to--?DEAN:Chuck, uhPRESIDENT:talks too much.DEAN:[Sighs] I, I, you know, I like Chuck,[laughs] but, uh, I don't want Chuck to know anything that I'm doing, frankly. [Laughs]PRESIDENT:All right.HALDEMAN:I think that's right. I, I think you wantto be careful-76not to give Chuck any more knowledge thanhe's already got.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Sure. Well -- DEAN:I wouldn't want Chuck to even know of themeeting, frankly.PRESIDENT:Fortunately, fortunately, with Chuck it isvery--I, I talk to him about many, manypolitical things, but I never talk aboutthis sort of thing 'cause he's, uh, he's very harmful. I mean I don't think--he must be damn sure I don't know anything. And Idon't. In fact, I'm rather surprised atwhat you told me today. From what you said, I gathered the impression, and of courseyour, your, your analysis does not for sure,uh, indicate that Chuck knew that it was a bugging operation for certain.DEAN:That's correct. I don't have--PRESIDENT:"On the other hand, on the other hand that,DEAN:Chuck, Chuck denies that PRESIDENT:On the other hand, the other side of that isthat Hunt had conversations with Chuck, andit may be that Hunt told Chuck that it wasbugging, and so forth and so on.-77DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:Is that correct?DEAN:Uh huh. They were very close. They, theytalked too much, uh, about too many things.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:They were intimate on this sort of--[coughs]HALDEMAN:Well then Chuck-- PRESIDENT:There&#8482;s another thing you can't--HALDEMAN:Chuck has a problem. Chuck loves,PRESIDENT:Yeah HALDEMAN:he loves what he does. PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:He likes to talk about it.PRESIDENT:He also is a name dropper. Chuck might havegone around and talked to Hunt and said,"Well, I was talking to the President, andthe President feels we ought to get information about this, or that or the other thing," and so forth, and so on.DEAN:Well, Liddy is the same way, and--PRESIDENT:I have talked to, I have talked to--this andthat and the other thing. I, I have never talked to anybody, but I have talked toChuck and John and the rest and I am surethat Chuck may have, Chuck might have even talked to Hunt along those lines.HALDEMAN:I would--Well, anything could happen. Iwould doubt that.-78DEAN:I would doubt that too.HALDEMAN:I don't think he would. Uh, Chuck is a namedropper in one sense, but not in that sense.PRESIDENT:Well, then do you think-- HALDEMAN:I think he very carefully keeps thePresident out of thingsPRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:except when he's doing it, when he's veryintentionally bringing the President in for,for the President's purposes.PRESIDENT:He had the impression though, apparently,that he, he was the, as it turns out, reallyis the trigger man. Uh, may of damn wellhave been the trigger man where he just called up and said, "Now look here Jeb, goahead and get that information.&#64258; And[unintelligible] got to be a decision on it at that time. This is February.DEAN:Yes, sir, I figure it was somewhere--PRESIDENT:It must be the&#352;I--it must have been after--DEAN:This was the call to Magruder from Colsonsaying, "Fish or cut bait.&#64258; Hunt and Liddy were in his office.HALDEMAN:In Colson's office?DEAN:In Colson's office. And he called Magruderand said, "Let's-79fish or cut bait on this operation. Let'sget it going."HALDEMAN:Oh, really? DEAN:Yeah. This is--Magruder tells me this. HALDEMAN:Of course. ThatPRESIDENT:Well on the other handHALDEMAN:Now wait, Magruder testified[unintelligible)[Several voices]: [Unintelligible]DEAN:Chuck, Chuck also told me that, uh, Hunt andLiddy were in his office and he made a call.HALDEMAN:Oh, okay.DEAN:So it did, it was corroborated [laughs] bythe, the principal.HALDEMAN:Hunt and Liddy haven't told you that,though?DEAN:No. HALDEMAN:You haven't talked to Hunt and Liddy? DEAN:I talked to Liddy once, right after theincident.PRESIDENT:That's right, but not--all right. The pointis, the point is this, that, uh, it's now time, though, to, uh, that Mitchell has gotto sit down, and know where the hell allthis-80thing stands, too. You see, John isconcerned, as you know, Bob, about, uh,Ehrlichman, which, uh, worries me a great deal because it's a, uh, it--and it, and this is why the Hunt problem is so serious,uh, because, uh, it had nothing to do withthe campaign.DEAN:Right, it, uh --PRESIDENT:Properly, it has to do with the Ellsbergthing. I don't know what the hell, uh --HALDEMAN:But why&#352; PRESIDENT:Yeah. Why--I don't know.HALDEMAN:What I was going to say is--PRESIDENT:What is the answer on that? How do you keepthat out? I don't know. Well, we can't keepit out if Hunt&#352;if--You see the point is, itis irrelevant. Once it has gotten to this point--DEAN:You might, you might put it on a nationalsecurity ground, basis, which it really, itwas.HALDEMAN:It absolutely was. DEAN:And just say that, uh,-81PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:that this is not, you know, this was--PRESIDENT:Not paid with CIA funds. DEAN:Uh-- PRESIDENT:No, seriously. National security. We hadto get information for national securitygrounds.DEAN:Well, then the question is, why didn't theCIA do it or why didn't the FBI do it?PRESIDENT:Because they were--We had to do it, we hadto do it on a confidential basis.HALDEMAN:Because we were checking them.PRESIDENT:Neither could be trusted.HALDEMAN:Well, I think PRESIDENT:That's the way I view it.HALDEMAN:that has never been proven. There wasreason to question theirPRESIDENT:Yeah.-82-HALDEMAN:position.PRESIDENT:You see really, with the Bundy thing andeverything coming out, the whole thing was national security.DEAN:I think we can probably get, get by on that.PRESIDENT:I think on that one, I think you'd simplysay this was a national security investigation that was conducted. And thesame with the drug field, with Krogh. Kroghcould say I--if Krogh were to--if [unintelligible] feels that he [unintelligible], it was a national securitymatter. That's why--DEAN:That's the way Bud rests easy, because he's,he's, he's convinced that he was doing it--he said there was treason about the country,PRESIDENT:Uh huh. DEAN:and it could have threatened the way the warwas handled.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:Uh, and by God-- HALDEMAN:Bud, Bud said this? DEAN:Yes.PRESIDENT:Well, Bud could say that and say this, itdoes involve--It was a national security-- and I was not in a position to divulge it.Well, anyway, let's don't go beyond that.We're&#352;-83forget--but I do think now we, uh, I mean,there is, there is a time, now, when youdon't want to talk to Mitchell. He doesn't want to talk, and the rest. But John is right. There must be a, must be a four waytalk here of the particular ones that we cantrust here. Uh, we've got to get a decision on it. It's not something that--you see yougot two ways, basically. There are reallyonly two ways you could go. You either decide the whole God damned thing is so full of problems with potential criminalliability which is what concerns me. Idon't give a damn about the publicity. We could, we could rock that through, if we hadto let the whole thing hang out. It wouldbe a lousy story for a month. But I can take it. But the point is, I don't want any criminal liability. That's the thing that Iam concerned about for members of the WhiteHouse staff, and I would trust for members of the Committee. And that means Magruder.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Let's face it: he's the one that's, uh--Ithink Magruder is the major guy over there.DEAN:I think he's got the most serious problem.PRESIDENT:Yeah.-84HALDEMAN:Well, then we talked about yesterday, you'vegot a, you got a question where your cut offpoint is. There is a possibility of cutting it at Liddy, where you are now.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:But to accomplish that requires--PRESIDENT:Requires what? HALDEMAN:Requires continued perjury by Magruder.PRESIDENT:Yeah. And it requires totalDEAN:--commitment-- PRESIDENT:control, got total, got total control overall of the defendants, which--in other words[unintelligible]DEAN:The basic position HALDEMAN:They don't know anything beyond Liddy.DEAN:Uh, no. Other than the fact, other than thefact that Liddy, they have hearsay, uh--HALDEMAN:But we don't know about Hunt. Maybe Hunthas it tied in to Colson. We don't knowthat, though, really.-85-DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:I think Hunt knows a hell of a lot more.DEAN:Yeah, I do too. And, now what McCord-- HALDEMAN:You think he does? I am afraid you're right,but, uh, we don't know that.PRESIDENT:I don't think[laughs] I think we bettweassume it. I think Colson--DEAN:And he's playing hard ball, and he wouldn'tplay hard--HALDEMAN:Is he? DEAN:Yeah. He wouldn't play hard ball unless hewere pretty confident that he could cause anawful lot of grief.HALDEMAN:Really? DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:He is playing hard boiled ball with regardto Ehrlichman, for example, and that sort of thing. He knows what he's got.HALDEMAN:What's he planning on, money?DEAN:Yeah, money and---86HALDEMAN:Really?DEAN:Oh, yeah. He's uhPRESIDENT:It's a hundred and twenty thousand dollars.It's about what, about how much, which is easy. I mean, it's not easy to deliver, butit is easy to get. Uh, now, uh [nineseconds of silence]. If that, if what, if that, if that is the case, if it's just thatway, then the thing to do is, if, if, thething all, uh, cracks out--if, if for, if, for example, you say look we're not, we're not going to continue to try to--let's stateit frankly, cut our losses--that's just oneway you could go--on the assumption that we're, we, by continuing to cut our losses,we're not going to win. That in the end, weare going to be bled to death, and it's all going to come out anyway, and then you get the worst of both worlds. We are going tolose, and people are going to--HALDEMAN:And look [unintelligible] PRESIDENT:And we're going to look like we covered up.So that we can't do. Now. The other, theother, uh, the other line, however, uh, ifyou, if you take that line, that we're not going to continue to cut our losses, thatmeans then we have-87-to look square in the eye as to what thehell those losses are, and see which peoplecan--so we can avoid criminal liability. Right?DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:And that means, we got to, we've got to keepit off of you, uh, which I, which I [unintelligible) obstruction of justicething. We've got to keep it off Ehrlichman.We've got to keep it, naturally, off of Bob, off Chapin, if possible, and Strachan. Right?DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:And Mitchell. Right? DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:Now.HALDEMAN:And Magruder, if you can. But that's theone you pretty much have to give up.PRESIDENT:But, but Magruder, Magruder, uh, uh, John's.Dean's point is that if Magruder goes down,he'll pull everybody with him.HALDEMAN:That's my view. PRESIDENT:is it?HALDEMAN:Yup. I think Jeb, I don't think he wantsto. And I think-88he even would try not to, but I don't thinkhe is able not to.DEAN:I don't think he is strong enough, when itreallyHALDEMAN:Well, not that, not thatPRESIDENT:Well, another way, another way to do itthen, Bob, is to and John realizes this--is to, uh, continue to try to cut our losses.Now we have to look at that course ofaction. First, it is going to require approximately a million dollars to take care of the jackasses that are in jail. Thatcould be, that could be arranged.HALDEMAN or DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:That could be arranged. But you realizethat after we are gone, I mean, assuming these [unintelligible] are gone, they're going to crack, you know what I mean? Andthat'll be a unseemly story. Eventually,all the people aren't going to care that much.DEAN:That's right. It's--PRESIDENT:People aren't going to care.DEAN:So much history will pass between then andnow.PRESIDENT:In other words, what we're talking about isno question. But the second thing is, we're not going to be able to deliver on, on any kind of a, of a clemency thing. You knowColson has gone around on this clemencything with Hunt and the rest.-89DEAN:Hunt, Hunt is now talking in terms of beingout by Christmas.HALDEMAN:This year? DEAN:This year. Uh, he was told by O'Brien, whois my conveyor of doom back and forth,HALDEMAN:Yeah.DEAN:uh, that, uh, hell, he'd be lucky if he wereout a year from now, after the Ervinhearings were, uh, you know, over. He said,"How in the Lord's name could you be commuted that quickly?&#64258; He said, "Well, that's my commitment from Colson."HALDEMAN:By Christmas of this year?DEAN:Yeah. HALDEMAN:See that, that really, that's verybelievable 'cause Colson,PRESIDENT:Do you think Colson could have told him -- HALDEMAN:Colson is an, is an&#352;that&#8482;s, that's yourfatal flaw, really, in Chuck, is he is anoperator in expediency, and he will pay atthe time and where he isPRESIDENT:Yeah. HALD9MAN:whatever he has toto accomplish what he'sthere to do.DEAN:Right.-90HALDEMAN:And that's -- I, I would believe that he hasmade that commitment if Hunt says he has. Iwould believe he is capable of saying that.PRESIDENT:The only thing you could do with him wouldbe to parole him for a period of timebecause of his family situation. But youcouldn't provide clemency.DEAN:No, I--Uh, Kleindienst has now got controlof the parole board, and he said that now wecan, we can pull paroles off now where we couldn't before. So--PRESIDENT:Well, parole&#352;HALDEMAN:Yeah, but Kleindienst always tells you that,and then never delivers.PRESIDENT:Parole, parole.DEAN:Well, I mean --PRESIDENT:Let's, let's talk candidly about that.Parole [unintelligible] in human terms, and so forth, is something that I think inHunt's case, you could do Hunt, but youcouldn't do the others. You understand?DEAN:Well, so much depends upon how Siricasentences. He can sor--, sentence, sentencein a way that, uh, makes parole evenimpossible.-91PRESIDENT:Oh, he can?DEAN:Sure. He can do all kinds of permanentsentences.PRESIDENT:On this kind of thing? DEAN:Yeah. He can be a, just a son-of-a-bitch,uh, as far as the whole thing.HALDEMAN:Of course, can't you appeal on a, on anunjust sentence as well as on an unjustconviction?DEAN:You've got sixty days to ask the judge toreview it. There is no appellate review of sentences.HALDEMAN:There isn't?DEAN:Not that I-- PRESIDENT:The judge can review it, yeah.HALDEMAN:Only the sentencing judge can reviewPRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:his own sentence? PRESIDENT:Coming back, though, to this. So you gotthat--the, uh, hanging over. Now. If, uh--you, you see, if you let it hang there, the point is you could let all or only part--The point is, your feeling is that we just can'tcontinue to,-92to pay the blackmail of these guys?DEAN:I think that's our greatest jeopardy.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Now, let me tell you, it's DEAN:'Cause that is --PRESIDENT:no problem, we could, we could get themoney. There is no problem in that. We can't provide the clemency. The money canbe provided. Mitchell could provide the wayto deliver it. That could be done. See what I mean?HALDEMAN:But, Mitchell says he can't, doesn't he?DEAN:Mitchell says that, uh--Well, Mitch--,that's, it's, you know, there has been an interesting thing, uh, phenomena all the wayalong on this, is that there have been a lotof people having to pull oars and not everybody pulls them all the same time, the same way, because there developself-interests.HALDEMAN:What John is saying is that everybody smilesat Dean and says, "Well you better get something done about it."DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible] HALDEMAN:And Mitch--Mitchell is leaving Dean hangingout on a--None-93of us, well, maybe we're doing the samething to you.DEAN:That's right. HALDEMAN:But I--let me say that, that I don't see howthere's any way that you can have the WhiteHouse, or anybody presently in the WhiteHouse, involved in trying to gin out this money.DEAN:We are already deeply enough in that.That's the problem, Bob.PRESIDENT:1 thought you said you could handle themoney?DEAN:Well, in fact, that, uh, when--PRESIDENT:Kalmbach? DEAN:Well, Kalmbach, uh, was aHALDEMAN:He's not the one.DEAN:No, but when they ran out of that money, asyou know, they came after the three-fifty that was over here.PRESIDENT:And they used that, right?DEAN:And I had to explain what it was [laughs]for, uh, before I could get the money.PRESIDENT:Well, you said&#352;-94DEAN:Now, they--now, that&#352;-they--HALDEMAN:That was put, that was, that was--in thefirst place, that was put back to LaRueDEAN:That's right. HALDEMAN:where it belonged. It wasn't all returnedin a lump sum. It was put back in pieces.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:And then LaRue used it for this otherpurpose?DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Well, I think they can get that. HALDEMAN:And the balance was all returned to LaRue.DEAN:That's right.HALDEMAN:The problem is we don't have any receipt forthat, do we. We have no way of proving that.PRESIDENT:I [unintelligible]DEAN:And I think, I think that was because, youknow, of self interest over there. Mitchell would--HALDEMAN:Mitchell told LaRue not to take it at all.DEAN:That's right.-95-HALDEMAN:This is what you told me.DEAN:That's right. And then you don't give thema receipt.PRESIDENT:Well, then, but what happened? LaRue tookit, and then what?DEAN:Well, it was sent back to him because wejust couldn't continue piecemeal giving, you know, I ask it--Everytime I asked for it Ihad to tell Bob I needed some, or somethinglike that,PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:and he had to get Gordon Strachan to go upto his safe and take it out and take it overto LaRue.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:This was just a forever operation.PRESIDENT:Then what--Why didn't they take it all tohim?DEAN:I think it's sent over with him.HALDEMAN:Well, we had been trying to get a way to getthat money back out of here anyway.PRESIDENT:Sure. HALDEMAN:And what this was supposed to be was loans.This was-96PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:immediate cash needs that was going to bere--, replenished. And Mitchell was arguing "You can't take the three-fifty back till it's all replenished.&#64258; Isn't that right?DEAN:That's right. Well, uh, you know, we--HALDEMAN:And then they never replenished it, so wejust gave it all back anyway.PRESIDENT:I have a feeling we could handle this one.Well--DEAN:Well, first of all, they'd have a hell of atime proving it. Uh, that's one thing. Uh-PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah--I just have a feeling on it.But let's now come back to the money, a million dollars, and so forth and so on.Let me say that I think you could get thatin cash, and I know money is hard, but, there are ways. That could be [unintelligible). But the point is, uh,what would you do on that--Let's, let's lookat the hard facts.DEAN:I mean, that's been very interesting. Thathas been, thus far, the most difficultproblem.PRESIDENT:Why? DEAN:They have been--That's why these fellowshave been on or-97off the reservation all the way along.PRESIDENT:So the hard place is this. Your, yourfeeling at the pre sent time is the hell with the million dollars. In other words, you say to these fellows, "I am sorry, it isall off," and let them talk. Right?DEAN:Well-- PRESIDENT:That, that's the way to do it, isn't it?DEAN:That--PRESIDENT:If you want to do it clean, [unintelligible] DEAN:Then what-- PRESIDENT:come out.HALDEMAN:See, then when you do it, it's a way you canlive with. Because the problem with the blackmail, and that's the thing we keptraising with you when you said there's amoney problem, when we need twenty thousand or a hundred thousand or something, was yeah, that's what you need today. But whatdo you need tomorrow and next year and fiveyears from now?PRESIDENT:How long? DEAN:Well, that was just to get us throughNovember seventh, though.-98-HALDEMAN:I recognize that's what we had to giveDEAN:Right.HALDEMAN:to November seventh. There's no question. DEAN:Except they could have sold--these fellowscould have sold out to the Democrats for afantastic amount.PRESIDENT:Yeah, these fellows--But of course you know,these fellows though, as far as that planwas concerned.HALDEMAN:But what is there? PRESIDENT:As far as what happened up to this time, ourcover there is just going to be the CubanCommittee did this for them up through theelection.DEAN:Well, yeah. We can put that together. Thatisn't, of course, quite the way it happened,but, uh--PRESIDENT:I know, but it's the way it's going to haveto happen.DEAN:It's going to have to happen. [Laughs]PRESIDENT:That's right. Finally, though, so you letit go. So what happens is then they go out and, uh, and they'll start blowing thewhistle on everybody else. Isn't that whatit really gets down to?DEAN:Uh huh.-99-PRESIDENT:So that, that would be the, the clean way.Right?DEAN:Uh &#338; PRESIDENT:Is that really you're-- you, you really goso far as to recommend that?DEAN:That--No, I wouldn't. I don't think, Idon't think necessarily that's the cleanest way. One of the--I think that is what weall need to discuss: is there some way thatwe can get our story before a grand jury, and, so that they can have, have really investigated the White House on this. Imean, and I must, I must be perfectlyhonest, I haven't really thought through that alternative. We've been, you know,been so busyPRESIDENT:John, DEAN:on the other containment situation. PRESIDENT:John Ehrlichman, of course, has raised thepoint of another grand jury. I just don'tknow how you're going to do it. On what basis. I, I could call for it, but I--DEAN:That would be, I would think, uhPRESIDENT:The President takes the leadership, and says"Now, in view of all this, uh, stripped land and so forth, I understand this,-100but I, I think I want another grand juryproceeding and, and we'll have the WhiteHouse appear before them.&#64258; Is that right John?DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:That's the point, you see. That would makethe difference. I want everybody in the White House called. And that, that givesyou the, a reason not to have to go upbefore the [unintelligible] Committee. It puts it in a, in an executive session, in a sense.HALDEMAN:Right.PRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:Uh, well--HALDEMAN:And there'd be some rules of evidence,aren't there?DEAN:There are rules of evidence. PRESIDENT:Both evidence and you have lawyers.HALDEMAN:So you are in a hell of a lot betterposition than you are up there.DEAN:No, you can't have a lawyer before a grandjury.PRESIDENT:Oh, no. That's right.DEAN:You can't have a lawyer before a grand jury.-101HALDEMAN:O.K., but you, but you, you do have rules ofevidence. You can refuse to, to talk.DEAN:You can take the Fifth Amendment. PRESIDENT:That's right. That's right. HALDEMAN:You can say you forgot, too, can't you?DEAN:Sure.PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:But you can't--you're--very high risk inperjury situation.PRESIDENT:That's right. Just be damned sure you say Idon'tHALDEMAN:Yeah--PRESIDENT:remember; I can't recall, I can't give anyhonest, an answer to that that I can recall. But that's it.HALDEMAN:You have the same perjury thing on the Hill,don't you?DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Oh hell, yes.HALDEMAN:And, and they'll be doing things on[unintelligible]-102PRESIDENT:My point is, though--HALDEMAN:which is a hell of a lot worse to deal with.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:The grand jury thing has it&#8482;s, uh, uh, uh--view of this they might, uh. Suppose wehave a grand jury proceeding. Would that,would that, what would that do to the Ervin thing? Would it go right ahead anyway?DEAN:Probably.HALDEMAN:If you do it in executive-- PRESIDENT:But then on that score, though, we have--letme just, uh, run by that, that--You do thaton a grand jury, we could then have a muchbetter cause in terms of saying, "Look, this is a grand jury, in which, uh, theprosecutor--" How about a specialprosecutor? We could use Petersen, or use another one. You see he is probably suspect. Would you callDEAN:NoPRESIDENT:in another prosecutor? DEAN:I'd like to have Petersen on our side,advising us [laughs] frankly.-103PRESIDENT:Frankly. Well, Petersen is honest. Isanybody about to be question him, are they?DEAN:No, no, but he'll get a barrage when, uh,these Watergate hearings start.PRESIDENT:Yes, but he can go up and say that he's,he's been told to go further in the GrandJury and go in to this and that and the other thing. Call everybody in the WhiteHouse. I want them to come, I want the, uh,uh, to go to the Grand Jury.DEAN:This may result--This may happen evenwithout our calling for it when, uh, whenthese, uh--PRESIDENT:Vesco? DEAN:No. Well, that's one possibility. But alsowhen these people go back before the GrandJury here, they are going to pull all these criminal defendants back in before the Grand Jury and immunize them.PRESIDENT:And immunize them: Why? Who? Are you goingto--On what?DEAN:Uh, the U.S. Attorney's Office will. PRESIDENT:To do what?DEAN:To talk about anything further they want totalk about.-104PRESIDENT:Yeah. What do they gain out of it?DEAN:Nothing.PRESIDENT:To hell with them. DEAN:They, they're going to stonewall it, uh, asit now stands. Except for Hunt. That's why,that's the leverage in his threat.HALDEMAN:This is Hunt's opportunity. DEAN:This is Hunt's opportunity.PRESIDENT:That's why, that's why,HALDEMAN:God, if he can lay this PRESIDENT:that's why your, for your immediate thingyou've got no choice with Hunt but thehundred and twenty or whatever it is.Right?DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Would you agree that that's a buy timething, you better damn well get that done, but fast?DEAN:I think he ought to be given some signal,anyway, to, to--PRESIDENT:Yes. DEAN:Yeah--You know. PRESIDENT:Well for Christ's sakes get it in a, in away that, uh--Who's going to talk to him?Colson?-105He's the one who's supposed to know him.DEAN:Well, Colson doesn't have any money though.That's the thing. That's been our, one of the real problems. They have, uh, been unable to raise any money. A milliondollars in cash, or, or the like, has beenjust a very difficult problem as we've discussed before. Apparently, Mitchell hastalked to Pappas, and I called him last Johnasked me to call him last night after our discussion and after you'd met with John to see where that was. And I, I said, "Haveyou talked to, to Pappas?&#64258; He was at home,and Martha picked up the phone so it was all in code. "Did you talk to the Greek?" And he said, uh, "Yes, I have." And I said,"Is the Greek bearing gifts?&#64258; He said, "Well, I want to call you tomorrow on that."PRESIDENT:Well, look, uh, what is it that you need onthat, uh, when, uh, uh? Now, look[unintelligible] I am, uh, unfamiliar with the money situation.DEAN:Well that, you know, it, it sounds easy todo, apparently, until, uh, everyone is outthere doing it and that's where our breakdown has, has come every time.PRESIDENT:Well, if you had it, where would you, howwould you get it to somebody?-106-DEAN:Well, I, uh, I gather LaRue just leaves itin mail boxes and things like that, andtells Hunt to go pick it up. Someone phones Hunt and tells him to pick it up. As I say, we're a bunch of amateurs in that business.HALDEMAN:That was the thing that we thought Mitchellought to be able to know how to find somebody who could do all that sort ofthing, because none of us know how to.DEAN:That's right. You got to wash money and allthat sort, you know, if you get a hundred thousand out of a bank, and it all comes inserialized bills, and--PRESIDENT:Oh I understand. DEAN:And that means you have to go to Vegas withit or a book maker in New York City, andI've learned all these things after the fact, it's--[laughs] Great shape for the next time around. [Laughter]HALDEMAN:Jesus.PRESIDENT:Well, the main point, now, is the people whowill need the money [unintelligible]. Well of course, you've got the surplus from thecampaign. That we have to account for. Butif there's any other money hanging around---107-HALDEMAN:Well, but what about all the, what about themoney we moved back out of the--here?DEAN:Apparently, there's some there. That mightbe what they can use. Uh, I don't know how much is left.PRESIDENT:Kalmbach must have some, doesn't he?DEAN:Kalmbach doesn't have a cent. PRESIDENT:He doesn't?DEAN:See the new law--HALDEMAN:No, see that three-fifty that we moved outwas all we saved. Because they were afraid to, because of this that's what I mean;that's the trouble: We are so God damnedsquare that [laughs] we'd get caught. I mean--PRESIDENT:Well, could I suggest that this though: uh,now, let me, let me, let me go back around-- [unintelligible]. They will then, uh--HALDEMAN:Be carefulPRESIDENT:The, uh, the Grand Jury thing has a feel.Question is uh,--It, it at least says that we are cooperating_108DEAN:Well--PRESIDENT:with the Grand Jury.DEAN:Once we, once we start down any route thatinvolves the criminal justice system,PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:you, you've got to have full appreciation ofthere is really no control over that.PRESIDENT:No, sir.DEAN:Uh, while we did, uh--we had a, an amazingjob ofPRESIDENT:Yeah, I know. DEAN:keeping the thing on the track beforePRESIDENT:Straight.DEAN:while the FBI was out there, all that--andthat was uh, only becausePRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:I had a [unintelligible] of where they weregoing.PRESIDENT:[Unintelligible]. Right. Right. But youhaven't got that now because everybody elseis going to have a lawyer. Let's take the new Grand-109-Jury. Uh, the new Grand Jury would callMagruder again, wouldn't it?DEAN:But, based on what information it would? Forexample, what happens if Dean goes in and gives a story, you know, that here is theway it all came about. It was supposed tobe a legitimate operation and it obviously got off the track. I heard of thesehorribles, told Haldeman that we shouldn'tbe involved in it.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Right. DEAN:Then Magruder's going to have to be calledin and questioned about all those meetingsagain, and the like. And it begins to-- again he'll begin to change his story as towhat he told the Grand Jury the last time.PRESIDENT:Well-- DEAN:That way, he's in a perjury situation. HALDEMAN:Except, that's the best leverage you've goton Jeb--is that he's got to keep his storystraight or he's in real trouble.DEAN:That's right. HALDEMAN:Unless they get smart and give him immunity.If they_110immunize Jeb, then you have an interestingproblem.PRESIDENT:He wouldn't want-- DEAN:Well, I think we have, HALDEMAN:[Unintelligible] immunity.DEAN:we have control, we have control over whogets immunized.HALDEMAN:Do we?DEAN:Yeah, I think they wouldn't do that withoutour--PRESIDENT:But you see, the Grand Jury proceeding[unintelligible] sort of thing, you can godown that road and then&#352;if--if they had--I'mjust thinking of now how the President looks. We would be cooperating. We wouldbe cooperating through a Grand Jury.Everybody would be behind us. That's the proper way to do this. It should be done through a grand jury, not up there in thekleig lights of the Committee, or--DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Nobody's questioning if it's a grand jury,and so forth. So, and then we would insiston executive privilege before the Committee,flat out say, "No we won't do that. We're not going to do it. Matter before a grandjury," and_111that's that. You see--HALDEMAN:All right, then you go to the next step.Would we then--the Grand Ju--, the Grand Jury meet in executive session?DEAN:Yes, sir, they'rePRESIDENT:Always--DEAN:secret sessions, they&#8482;re secret. HALDEMAN:Secret session--PRESIDENT:Secret--HALDEMAN:All right, then would we agree to releaseour statement, our Grand Jury transcripts?DEAN:That's not, that's not for our--We don'thave the authority to do that. That's up tothe Court and the Court, thus far, has not released the ones from the last Grand Jury.PRESIDENT:They usually are not.DEAN:It would be highly unusual for a grand juryto come out. What would happen is--HALDEMAN:But a lot of the stuff from the Grand Jurycame out.-112PRESIDENT:Leaks. Well--DEAN:It came out of the U.S. Attorney's Office,PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:more than the, the Grand Jury. We don'tknow. Some of the Grand Jurors may haveleakedPRESIDENT:Right, right. DEAN:it, but they were--PRESIDENT:Bob, it's not so bad. It's, that's just notthe bad--or the worst place. But--HALDEMAN:Well, what I was, I was going the other waythere. I was going to it might be to ourinterest to get it out.PRESIDENT:Well, we, we could easily do that. Leak outcertain stuff. We could pretty much controlthat. We've got much more control there.Now, the other possibility is not to go to the Grand Jury. Then you've got three things. (1) You just say, "The hell withit, we can't raise the money, sorry Hunt,you can say what you want.&#64258; And so Hunt blows the whistle. Right?DEAN:Right.PRESIDENT:All right, if that happens, then that raisessome possibilities of other criminal-- because he is likely to say a hell of a lotof things and he's certain to get Magruderon it.-113-DEAN:It'll get Magruder. It'll start the wholeFBI investigation going again.PRESIDENT:Yeah. So, uh, what else--it'll getMagruder; it could possibly get Colson. He's in that danger.DEAN:That's right. Could get, uh--PRESIDENT:Could get Mitchell. Maybe. No. HALDEMAN:Hunt can't get Mitchell.DEAN:I don't think Hunt can get Mitchell. Hunt'sgot a lot of hearsay.PRESIDENT:Ehrlichman? He could on the other thingexcept Ehrlichman [unintelligible]DEAN:Krogh, Krogh could go down in smoke. Uh--PRESIDENT:Because Krogh, uh--Where could anybodyButon the other hand, Krogh just says he, uh,uh, Krogh says this is a national securitymatter. Is that what he says? Yeah, he said that.DEAN:Yeah, but that won't sell, ultimately, in acriminal situation. It may be mitigating onsentences but it won't, uh, in the main matter&#352;-114-HALDEMAN:Well, then that--PRESIDENT:That's right. Try to look around the track.We have no choice on Hunt but to try to keep him--DEAN:Right now, we have no choice.PRESIDENT:But, but my point is, do you ever have anychoice on Hunt? That's the point.DEAN:[Sighs]PRESIDENT:No matter what we do here now, John,DEAN:Well, if we-- PRESIDENT:Hunt eventually, if he isn't going to getcommuted and so forth, he's going to blowthe whistle.DEAN:What I have been trying to conceive of ishow we could lay out everything we know[sighs] in a way that, you know, we've toldthe Grand Jury or somebody else, so that if a Hunt blows,PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:so what's new? You know, it's already beentold to a grand jury, and they found no criminal liability, and they investigated it in full. We're sorry fellow&#352;-115PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:Uh, We don't, it doesn't--PRESIDENT:Including Ehrlichman's use of Hunt on theother deal?DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:You'd throw that out?DEAN:Uh, well, Hunt will go to jail for that toohe's got to understand that.PRESIDENT:That's the point too. I don't think that--Iwouldn't throw that out. I think I would limit it to--I don't think you need to go into every God damned thing Hunt has done.DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:He's done some things in the nationalsecurity area. Yes. True.HALDEMAN:We've already said that. Anyway, I mean,we've laid the groundwork for that.DEAN:Uh huh. PRESIDENT:But here is the point, John: So you go that-Let's go to the other extreme, the other,the other angle is to decide, oh, well, if you open up the Grand Jury, first, it-116-won't do any good; it won't be believed.And then you'll have two things going: TheGrand Jury and you have the other thing. At least the Grand Jury appeals to me from the standpoint, it's the President makes themove. "Since all these charges have beenbandied about, and so forth, the best thing to do is to--I have ordered, or I have askedthe Grand Jury to look into any furthercharges. All charges have been raised.&#64258; That's the place to do it, and not before a Committee of the Congress. Right?DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:Then, however, we may say, Mitchell, et al.,God, we can't risk that, I mean, uh, allsorts of shit'll break loose there. Thenthat leaves you to your third thing. The third thing is just to continue to--DEAN:Hunker down and fight it.PRESIDENT:All right. If you hunker down and fight it,fight it and what happens?DEAN:Your-- PRESIDENT:Your view is that that is, is not really aviable option.DEAN:it's a very--it's a high risk. A very highrisk.PRESIDENT:A high risk, because your view is that whatwill happen out of that is that it's going to come out. Somebody's Hunt--something's going to break loose&#352;-117DEAN:Something is going to break and--PRESIDENT:When it breaks it'll look like the PresidentDEAN:--is covering up-- PRESIDENT:is, has covered up a huge uh, uh, this--Right?DEAN:That's correct.HALDEMAN:But you can't contain the charge. PRESIDENT:That's not--DEAN:I just don't--PRESIDENT:You're, you're, DEAN:I don't think it's-- PRESIDENT:you now have, uh, moved away from the hunkerdown.DEAN:Well, I've moved to the point that we'vecertainly got to make a, a harder look atthe other alternative, which we haven'tbefore.PRESIDENT:The other alternatives. DEAN:The other alternatives. Right.PRESIDENT:Three other choices, wouldn't you say? As amatter of fact, your m--, middle ground of Grand Jury. And then there's finally the other ground of--No, I suppose there's amiddle ground,-118DEAN:And I would--PRESIDENT:or the middle ground of a s--, of a publicstatement, but without a grand jury.DEAN:What we need also, sir-- PRESIDENT:And also--HALDEMAN:But John's view is if we make the publicstatementPRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:that we talked--I raised that this morning,the, the thing we talked about last nightPRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:If each of usPRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:make moves, PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:he says that will immediately lead to agrand jury.PRESIDENT:Fine--all right, fine. HALDEMAN:As soon as we make that statement, they'llhave to call a grand jury.PRESIDENT:Then maybe we make the public statementbefore the Grand Jury, in order to--HALDEMAN:So it looks like we are trying to do itover.DEAN:All right, say, all right, say here arepublic statements, and we want, we want, uh,-119PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:full Grand Jury investigationPRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:by the U.S. Attorney's Office. PRESIDENT:Curious to see whether this statement's,then, that's right. That I, but--And thatwe've said that the reason that we had delayed this is until after the sentencing.You see, the point is, the reason that timeis of the essence, we can't play around with this, is that they're going to sentence on Friday. We're going to have to move the Goddamned thing pretty fast. See what I mean?DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:So we've got to act, we really haven't timeto [unintelligible]DEAN:The other, the other thing is that theAttorney General could call Sirica, and say that, "The government has some majordevelopments that it's considering. Wouldyou hold sentencing for two weeks?&#64258; If we set ourself on a course of action.PRESIDENT:Yep, yep.-120DEAN:Say, that "The sentencing may be in thewrong perspective right now. I don't knowfor certain, but I just think there are some things that, uh, I am not at liberty to discuss with you, that I want to ask thatthe, the Court withhold two weekssentencing."HALDEMAN:So then the story is out: "Sirica DelaysSentencing Watergate&#352;-For--"DEAN:I think, I think that could be handled in away between Sirica and Kleindienst that it would not get out.PRESIDENT:No.DEAN:Sirica tells me, I mean Kleindienstapparently does have good rapport withSirica. He's never talked to him since thiscase has developed,HALDEMAN OR PRESIDENT:Why not?DEAN:but,uh--PRESIDENT:That's helpful. Kleindienst could say thathe's, uh, he's working on something and would like, like, like to have a week. Iwouldn't take two weeks. I would take aweek.DEAN:I'll tell you the person that I would, youknow, I feel that, uh, we, we could use hiscounsel on this, because he understands the criminal process better than anybody over here does,PRESIDENT:Petersen?DEAN:is Petersen. It, it's awkward for Petersen.He's the head of-121the Criminal Division. But to discuss someof these things with him, we may well wantto remove him from the head of the Criminal Division and say, that, uh,"Rela--, related to this case, you will have no relation.&#64258;Uh, and give him on some special assignmentover here where he can sit down and say, "Yes, this is an, this is an obstruction,but it couldn't be proved," or so on and soforth. We almost need him out of there to take his counsel. That would, uh, I, I don't think he'd want that, but, uh, he isthe most knowledgeable--PRESIDENT:How could you get him out? DEAN:I think an appeal directly to Henry, uh,that, uh--PRESIDENT:Why doesn't the President--could, could thePresident call him in as Special Counsel to the White--to the, to the White House forthe purpose of conducting an investigation,represent--uh, you see, in other words rather than having Dean in on it,DEAN:I have thought of that. I have thought ofthat.PRESIDENT:have him as Special Counsel to represent tothe Grand Jury and the rest.DEAN:That is one possibility.PRESIDENT:Yeah.-122HALDEMAN:On the basis that Dean has now become aprincipal, ratherPRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:than a Special Counsel. DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:Uh huh. PRESIDENT:And that he's a--DEAN:And I, and I could recommend that to you.PRESIDENT:He could recommend it, you could recommendit, and Petersen would come over and be the, uhAnd I'd say, "Now&#352;&#64257;HALDEMAN:Petersen's planning to leave, anyway.PRESIDENT:And I'd say, "Now," DEAN:Is he?PRESIDENT:"I want you to get--we want you to (1) We'dsay to Petersen, "We want you to get to the bottom of the God damned thing. Call another Grand Jury or anything else.&#64258;Correct? Well, now you've got to follow upto see-123-whether Kleindienst can get Sirica to putoff--Right? If that is, if we--Second,you've got to get Mitchell down here. And you and Ehrlichman and Mitchell and let's -- and--by tomorrow.HALDEMAN:Why don't we do that tonight?PRESIDENT:I don't think you can get him that soon, canyou?HALDEMAN:John?PRESIDENT:It would be helpful if you could. DEAN:I think it would be. PRESIDENT:You need--DEAN:Get him to come down this afternoon.PRESIDENT:It would be very helpful to, to get itgoing. And, uh, uh, you know, and uh, and,uh, and then, uh--Actually, uh, I'mperfectly willing to meet with the group, or I don't know whether--HALDEMAN:Do you think you want to?PRESIDENT:Maybe have Dean report to me at the end, asto what are, as to what conclusions, et cetera, what you want to do. I think I should stay away from the Mitchell side ofit at this point.DEAN:Uh huh. PRESIDENT:Do you agree?DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:And, uh---124DEAN:And I think, unless we see, you know, somesort of a reluctant dragon there--HALDEMAN:You might try to meet with the rest of us,I, I'm, I'm not sure you'd want to meet with John in a group of us. Okay, let me see if Ican get it done.PRESIDENT:All right. Fine. And, uh, my point isthat, uh, we can, uh,--you may well come--Ithink it is good, frankly, to consider thesevarious options. And then, once you, once you decide on the plan&#352;John--and you had the right plan, let me say, I have no doubtsabout the right plan before the election.And you handled it just right. You contained it. Now after the election we'vegot to have another plan, because we can'thave, for four years, we can't have this thing--you're going to be eaten away. We can't do it.DEAN:Well, there's been a change in the mood--HALDEMAN:John's point is exactly right, that theerosion here now is going to you, and that is the thing that we've got to turn off, atwhatever the cost. We've got to figure outwhere to turn it off at the lowest cost we can, but at whatever cost it takes.DEAN:That's what, that's what we have to do.-125PRESIDENT:Well, the erosion is inevitably going tocome here, apart from anything, you know,people saying that, uh, well, the Watergate isn't a major concern. It isn't. But it would, but it will be. It's bound to be.DEAN:We cannot let you be tarnished by thatsituation.PRESIDENT:Well, I [unintelligible] also because I--Although Ron Ziegler has to go out--Theyblame the [unintelligible] the White House [unintelligible]DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:We don't, uh, uh, I say that the White Housecan't do it. Right?HALDEMAN:Yeah.DEAN:Yes, sir.-126