TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETINGAMONG THE PRESIDENT, H.R. HALDEMAN,AND JOHN EHRLICHMAN, THE EOB, ONAPRIL 14, 1973, FROM 5:15 TO 6:45 P.M.(Tape noise occurs throughout)**********EHRLICHMAN:Well, he and his two lawyers who are ver-very bright young guys came in. --So I said, "Evidently, judging by your phone call earlier this is moot." He said, "Yes, wehave just come from our informal conferencewith the U.S. Attorney." He proceeded then to voluntarily give me his whole testimonyfrom beginning to end.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) sticky wickets, but no newones.EHRLICHMAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Your definition of their (unintelligible)HALDEMAN:On the other side (unintelligible) It's muchrougher on Dean.PRESIDENT:On Dean, he told him to lie?EHRLICHMAN:No. He's been a participant, an activeparticipant in this thing right from the very beginning.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) talked about the case inthe most coherent way we've ever had.EHRLICHMAN:And I must say-- HALDEMAN:We finally will know what happened.EHRLICHMAN:This has the--this has the ring of truthabout it. He, he is a convincing witness. So, ah, ah, you know. But at the same timeit has...HALDEMAN:It also is not in conflict with anythingelse you've got...EHRLICHMAN:That's true.HALDEMAN:and almost totally corroborates everythingelse you've got except you get to end of this time.EHRLICHMAN:his all starts back in September of 71, whenDean, Caulfield and Magruder,--ah, met andcontrived an intelligence effort called Sandwedge. Too much, 2 months later, ah, Dean had been unable to find the rightpeople to make that thing work.--and Deanhad approved of Liddy And later ah, Dean, Liddy and Magruder met. Liddy, after havingsome contact with Dean, and Magruder is alittle vague on (unintelligible) forward with a million dollar proposal.--Magruder says that Dean says that a million dollarswas the right figure. And that's why hepicked that figure.--Budgets and so the four of them met. They went over it and Mitchellrejects it. A week later, Liddy came backwith a budget half as big, the half-million dollar budget. And that was also rejected-PRESIDENT:By Mitchell?EHRLICHMAN:By Mitchell. Dean went on and said "Thesekinds of things shouldn't even be run by Mitchell. He's Attorney General of the United States. He is sitting over here inhis parochial office and he shouldn't even--Liddy and Magruder then went on to try and develop a satisfactory project proposal.PRESIDENT:A quarter...EHRLICHMAN:A quarter million dollar level. Magrudersaid he was never satisfied with it. He kept sending Liddy back to the drawingboards. Finally, Colson called, with Liddyand Hunt in his office (unintelligible-tape noise) vigorously. Finally, although he,and he felt Mitchell, too, were nervousabout it and didn't feel comfortable about it, he said, "Well all right, I'll start this moving."PRESIDENT:(Tape noise) he doesn't say that Colonchewed him out? Specifically about this proposal?EHRLICHMAN:He said, Gordon Liddy's projects. He didnot say wire taps. He used the word "projects." In fact, there was indeed a budget for this quarter million dollarproposal. It was in writing. A copy of ithad been furnished to Gordon Strachan. Anditems very specific, in terms of the kind ofequipment to be used.PRESIDENT:It was furnished to Strachan? EHRLICHMAN:Yes sir. (Unintelligible) There was noproblem from Strachan. That is he informedStrachan that he was going to go ahead with the so--called Liddy proposal and, I readhis, I read his non-response as okay fromhigher-up. I am not able to say of my own knowledge that there was any knowledge of anyone higher-up. Ah in point of fact, the,the ah, ah,-- was insisting upon wasinformation on Larry O'Brien. That was the thing he called about and that's the thingthat he had been driving at. Around the endof March, Mardian, ah, ah, excuse me, Magruder and LaRue went to Key Biscayne where John Mitchell was.PRESIDENT:Magruder. LaRueEHRLICHMAN:Right. They presented it to Mitchell,Liddy's final proposal, which (unintelligible) installed bugs in threeplaces -- Watergate --PRESIDENT:Was that on the phone? EHRLICHMAN:They were in person.PRESIDENT:Magruder...Magruder and Mitchell-- and LaRueand LaRue. Presented it to Mitchell?EHRLICHMAN:Yes sir. PRESIDENT:In three places, huh?EHRLICHMAN:It involved bugging three places --Watergate, McGovern Headquarters and the Fontainebleu. In the conversation, Mitchellorally approved it. Ah, now, it involvedother things besides taps, and ah, he was not specific. He said, "In all, in all honesty this was a kind of a non-decision.Nobody felt comfortable in this thing but wewere sort of bull-dozed into it." (Unintelligible) Ah --PRESIDENT:By Colson?EHRLICHMAN:I think March, about the time of the meetingdown in Key Biscayne, Liddy threatenedMagruder's life. He said he was transferredto the Stans' operation.PRESIDENT:Yeah. EHRLICHMAN:LaRue approached Magruder and said, "We needthat operation. You ought to take him backbecause it's, it's dead water without him.'" In fact, from the White House to theHeadquarters, he says he told the U.S.Attorney, convinced him that they needed the operation. Back to the quality of the work, they, what they were were getting was mostlythis fellow Oliver phoning his girl friendsall over the country lining up assignations. And paying money and discussing their YoungLeaders' Conference. Liddy was badlyembarrassed by the, ah, chewing out he got. (Unintelligible) again met in meeting with him. He said to John Mitchell, "Mr.Mitchell, I'll take care of it." That wasall that was said. So the next break-in was entirely on Liddy's own motion. But Magruder says neither Mitchell nor Magruderknew that another break-in was contemplated.I said "what ah, (unintelligible) after the firing of Liddy." Magruder was very nervousabout him. He phoned John Dean and askedDean to talk to Liddy and try and settle him down because he was acting erratic. Who in the White House is--involved in this wholething?-the names that I have given you.Dick Howard, some of Colson's people, and a lot of the secretaries in the have variousinformation about a lot of differentprojects, and pickets--all kinds of things that will come pouring out in the process of this whole thing. Well I said, "Back to theburglary, who else?" He said, "No oneelse." He said, "The U.S. Attorney is hot after Colson:--they know he was close toHunt. The only thing they have him on rightnow is the phone call to Magruder ah, so far as Jeb knows. But his attorney then chimed in, and said, "I think the U.S. Attorney hasa good deal more because the U.S. Attorneytold the lawyer that Hunt had re-perjuredhimself with respect to Colson."-- when hewas called back in under immunity andtestified as to the break-in, and the capture of the burglars, and the cover-up. Mitchell, LaRue, Mardian and the lawyersbasically--plus Magruder. Ah, Dean deviseda cover story, ah, in concert with these other people, and enlisted, ah, Bart Porterwho went to the Grand Jury and perjuredhimself in concert with the cover story. Dean prepared Magruder and others for the testimony at the Grand Jury, cross-examiningand getting them ready. Likewise, he leakedout information from the Grand Jury to the people at the Committee for the Re-election.The U.S. Attorney knows that he did that.It is illegal to do so.PRESIDENT:Did he say where he got it? EHRLICHMAN:He got it from higher-up. Ah, I assumethat's Henry Petersen, but I don't know.Okay, with Magruder and Mitchell in the operation of their, of this cover story about ah, these meetings. And they, theyworked out a, a, deal and they cancelled onemeeting -- the million dollar meeting--and the second meeting which was the half-million dollar meeting -- they told theGrand Jury they...PRESIDENT:He's testified to all this? EHRLICHMAN:Yes. They talked about election laws.Yeah, he's just told the U.S. Attorney allthis. He-destroyed his diary, but he couldn't do that. Ah, there's a million anda half dollars in cash that was distributed.PRESIDENT:Jesus Christ! EHRLICHMAN:LaRue and Stans know about it. There isquote the famous list un-quote of where thatmoney went. Ah, I don't know I am going tohave to check my notes with O'Brien. O'Brien may have told me about that. He mayhave given some idea of where that went.The three-fifty is a part of that. Mitchell says to Magruder, "Don't talk."PRESIDENT:Discouraged him. What about Haldeman?EHRLICHMAN:Haldeman's very much a target of the U.S.Attorney. So far they, they, they indicatedthat they, he was implicated only by association with other people--meaning Strachan presumably.--The attorney gave mehis private evaluation, that that was alittle puffing on the part of the U.S. Attorney. He did not think that they hadanything. Reisner and Powell Moore-PowellMoore is somebody on Timmons' staff who was at the Committee and who accompanied Liddy on what are called "The Saturday Events.""The Saturday Events" are the events thattook place the day after the burglary Liddy went out to find Kleindienst at Burning Treeand, ah, told him to let everybody out ofjail, on orders from John Mitchell. And LaRue, of course, and Mardian, largely on obstruction. They're developing many countsof obstruction of justice. Ah, one of theattorneys then in winding up, I told him- I gave Jeb your wishes and felicitations and so on and one of the attorneys said "Well,you know, in all of this there is not ascintilla of evidence that the President was in any way aware of any of thesetransactions." And he said, "Well I didn'tsay that for any purpose except just to express to you an impression I have about the way this thing's going." He said,"Literally tens of dozens of people downthere crying to, to be heard by the U.S. Attorney. And he said, "This thing israpidly deteriorating." But, ah, he said,ah, "In all of this I don't see any evidence of the involvement of the President." So that was that and I thanked them and sentthem on their way. Now I have the AttorneyGeneral of the United States sitting at home waiting to go to this dinner party and Ihave the Deputy Attorney General out oftown. But as Bob points out, there isn't anything in my report that isn't pretty well covered and expanded on in what they've justgot from Magruder. So, I think what I cando is call the Attorney General, tell him what I was going to tell 'em, tell him thatMagruder has just disclosed to me what hehas shown to the U.S. Attorney and that Ireally don't have anything to add, but that I did want him to be aware of the fact of the work that was done, and what I have donetoday. And, ah...HALDEMAN:Meetings which you had with Mitchell... EHRLICHMAN:Yeah.HALDEMAN:...and Magruder,EHRLICHMAN:Yeah. HALDEMAN:The purpose of your meetings was to make thepoint to them that they should not go on--onthe misguided assumption that that was forthe President...EHRLICHMAN:Right.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) This says that the meetingsat Key Biscayne (unintelligible) existed long after...PRESIDENT:Tell me this Bob, ah, what is, what aboutStrachan? Strachan says he did not knowabout this.HALDEMAN:Can I give Strachan a report on this? PRESIDENT:Sure. Sure. What is your, what was yourview about Strachan's perjury?EHRLICHMAN:I don't know.(More than one voice heard, allunintelligible)Make the headlines.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) He goes to the Grand JuryMonday morning. That's why it's fair thathe be given this information so he doesn'tperjure himself.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:I don't think he's testified on any of thisso I don't think he has any perjury problem. What he's got to do is build the defense that, that ah.PRESIDENT:Meets these points.HALDEMAN:Meets these points and ah...PRESIDENT:Could...HALDEMAN:And he could--he can keep himself as a, asan office boy, which is what he was. A conference boy. If he lied about a thing-- he persuaded Gordon to keep Liddy on, orsomething, or Jeb to keep Liddy on--ah, Iwould think he would argue back that-- "Jeb said to me, 'Now, what should we do?' and Isaid, "Jees, I think we better keep him on--he's getting good stuff." (Unintelligible) I think Gordon knows how to deal with that if you give it to him. But I -See now, Iwent back to Gordon today on this point(unintelligible) and he said, "Absolutely, there was no other money." That on the 22the only deal was for a fella to handle itaccording to what Howard told him--that's who they sent the money over to.PRESIDENT:For him (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:Well, we got Magruder, now, in this pickle.He's still on the government payroll in the Commerce Department.PRESIDENT:In Commerce?EHRLICHMAN:I think it is.--I thought he was.HALDEMAN:As I listen to this the second time around.Let me tell you what my concerns are.(Unintelligible) When he got down to it, hetold the truth. And when he is talking to us, at least, he is bringing us into it. He will, for instance, he'll want to elaborateon uh, Sandwedge and say I was involved init. Now to the extent that I listened to a presentation, I was. But I, at the timesaid, "This is something I don't want to beinvolved in. Something that should not be handled in here. Don't come to me any more with it", and they didn't. And then he'llsay I was also involved in the meetings.That he came to me after that second meeting and said, "They came up with, ah, you know,the plans, with a preposterous plan." Itold him that, "It can't be done." They shouldn't even be talking about it in the Attorney General's office. I said, "John,get out of it. You stay out of it, too."And he did. He said he would stay out of itfrom then on, and I suspect he did. They'lltie me in that way by indirection in a sense that, but, the problem is, that, I think,- his people with him. May be that soundslike "everybody go down with the ship" but,ah, when it comes to this cover up business. Expanding on, ah -Yes, he has a feeling--thethree fifty. I am not uncomfortable withthat, but Dean, Dean is uncomfortable.PRESIDENT:What do you do about Dean? In other words,John...HALDEMAN:The U.S. Attorney's got to (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:But Dean has been ah... EHRLICHMAN:I think this all has broken since. I thinkthey were probably playing it just right.PRESIDENT:Play their game (unintelligible) Magrudertestifies. (Unintelligible)EHRLICHMAN:I, I think that's their...PRESIDENT:Analysis.HALDEMAN:...analysis. ********** Part IIPRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) that Haldeman's gonnaresign, you mean?EHRLICHMAN:Yeah. Ziegler can, the next day, say "Hisconnection to this was very remote, was verybenign." And he...get that out... (unintelligible) in my view, before it was established that a crime was committed bySegretti.PRESIDENT:Right.(Several people talk, all unintelligible)PRESIDENT:I would not, I would not be, I would not beas, not be as strong for your getting it out, except for his having said "self incrimination", the fact that that madehim...HALDEMAN:You've got a really- crunchy decision, whichis whether you, whether you want me toresign or whether you don't. You, that'sone you've got to figure out. The problemwith that is if I go on the basis of the Segretti matter, you've got to let Dean go on the basis of his implication, which isfar worse.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Strachan's already out of the White House sothat's no problem. If they wait awhile(unintelligible) Ehrlichman in, you are going to have to let him go.**********EHRLICHMAN:He's got, he's got sort of a, got sort of ahypothesis that he's developing in our conversation that, that referring him toKalmbach was almost as good as action(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Yeah. EHRLICHMAN:As a matter of fact, I didn't refer him toKalmbach. He came to me and said, "May I goto Kalmbach?".HALDEMAN:He did the same thing to me. PRESIDENT:Go to Kalmbach for the purpose of?EHRLICHMAN:For the purpose of getting Herb to raisesome money. For the purpose of paying the defendants. For the purpose of keepingthem, quote, on the reservation, unquote.PRESIDENT:Right. With that they could try to tie youand Bob in a conspiracy to obstruct justice.EHRLICHMAN:That's his theory.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) questionable.EHRLICHMAN:Well, I'm not so sure that makes anydifference at this point. He's coloringthis in order to induce (unintelligible) thekey-was in their (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Well, lesser (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:Strachan's position is totally tenable andtrue (unintelligible) -- without giving himany help.(Beginning of Reel Two)PRESIDENT:I know. The way you have to handle that,let's face it, is that, uh, I mean, isthere, of course, you've got the whole business of the aftermath, as to(End of Reel One)uh, as to motive. And, uh, there, if you orBob are asked" uh, what do you say?EHRLICHMAN:Well, a, as far as I can reconstruct it andI may be putting it favorably,(unintelligible-tape noise) clearly is concerned about what these fellows are going to testify to. The Grand Jury in secretcouldn't hurt, whether they would go out andsell their stories, uh, to Saturday Evening Post...HALDEMAN:Life Magazine.PRESIDENT:Sure, sure. EHRLICHMAN:Yep. PRESIDENT:That's right. They're not a bit concernedabout (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:So, uh, I, I was concerned about that,particularly Hunt who is a kind of aro an author type and, and would be inclined to dothat kind of thing.HALDEMAN:In fact I had no knowledge who was or wasn'tguilty or where the thing led.PRESIDENT:I see. I see.HALDEMAN:That's exactly right. We weren't protectinganybody.EHRLICHMAN:I'm even willing to buy that.HALDEMAN:I know, I said that to John, and John didn'tagree with me.PRESIDENT:I wish we could keep Dean away from that.Magruder - we don't have to get that in, uh,(unintelligible) unless it's a-- Let me say, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's sleep on what we do with the, uh - My, my view is, though,I think that, I think the odds are, that theinterest in the Committee is less. (Unintelligible) some of the big fish. Thesecond thing is going to be, uh -**********Part III EHRLICHMAN:Colson is undoubtedly sending all kinds ofsignals to Mr. HuntHALDEMAN:And that Chuck is, is overkill. I think,he's his own worst enemy. He's very lucky that, that (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)EHRLICHMAN;He says that, uh, the New York Times has astory that he was here for a meeting with meyesterday.HALDEMAN:He acts like it was the first time he hasever been in the White House and he wants everybody to know.(Unintelligible Conversation).PRESIDENT:Well, you fellows need a little rest. HALDEMAN:Rest? Taking us all to that damn dinner(unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:We'll grin at the White HouseCorrespondents.HALDEMAN:That's no rest. PRESIDENT:Well, then listen (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:That's work.PRESIDENT:A year from now, it's gonna be different. EHRLICHMAN:Oh, yes.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). Yes.PRESIDENT:Nope, seriously, seriously (unintelligible).You know what?EHRLICHMAN:Six months from now.**********PRESIDENT:Sooner than you think. Let me tell you,John, that the thing about all of this thathas concerned me is the dragging the Goddamn out - thing out and dragging it out and being -and having it be the only issue in town.Now, and the thing to do now is to have theson of a bitch done - indict Mitchell andall the rest and there'll be a horrible two weeks - a terrible, terrible scandal, worse than Teapot Dome and so forth. And it isn't-doesn't have anything to do with teapot.It isn't as bad as--EHRLICHMAN:No.PRESIDENT:I mean good God, there's got to be novenality involved in the damn thing, no thievery or anything of that sort of thing. Nobody got any favors, and, uh - You knowwhat I mean?HALDEMAN:John (unintelligible). EHRLICHMAN:Yeah. That's true.HALDEMAN:Glad to hear it.PRESIDENT:The big, the, the, the, uh, the bad part ofit is the fact that the Attorney General, and the obstruction of justice thing, whichit appears to be. And yet, they ought toget-up fighting, in my view, a fighting position on that. I think they all ought to fight, and say this was not an obstructionof justice, we were simply trying to helpthese defendants. Would you agree on that or do you, do you think that's my - is, isthat - possible. (Unintelligible)EHRLICHMAN:I agree. I think it's gotta be defended,obviously.PRESIDENT:Yeah, but -EHRLICHMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:I know if they could get together on thestrategy, it would be pretty good for them.EHRLICHMAN:Yeah and, I think, uh, undoubtedly, thatwill, that will shake down.PRESIDENT:I would think that the U.S. Attorney's andthe rest (unintelligible).EHRLICHMAN:Thank you, sir.HALDEMAN:Yes, sir. **********