TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETINGBETWEEN THE PRESIDENT AND H. R. HALDEMANON JUNE 23, 1972 FROM 2:20 TO 2:45 P.M.**********(Background noise)HALDEMAN:Well, it's no problem. Had the...two of themin, uh, state of health (unintelligible) but it's kind of interesting. Walters said that, uh, make a point. I didn't mentionHunt at the opening. I just said that,that, uh, this thing which we give direction to we're gonna create some very majorpotential problems because they wereexploring leads that led back into to, uh, areas it will be harmful to the CIA, harmful to the government. (telephone rings) But,didn't have anything to with, with, with(unintelligible) kind of thing.PRESIDENT:(Answers telephone) Hello? Chuck, Iwondered if you would, ah, give JohnConnally a call. He's on his trip. I don'twant him to read it in the papers before Monday about this quota thing and say,"Look, uh, he met, uh, we're gonna do this,but, but, I checked, uh, I asked you about the situation, and you personally checked your calendar and made, have anunderstanding. It's only temporary(unintelligible). It won't affect (unintelligible) people (unintelligible)."Okay. I didn't want him to read it in thepapers. Good. Bye.(Hangs up telephone)HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:Unintelligible). He saidHALDEMAN:I think Helms did, too. Helms said well,uh, I've had no contact (unintelligible) anduh, Gray called and said, uh, yesterday, andsaid uh, that he thought -PRESIDENT:Who had, Gray?JUNE 23, 1972 FROM 2:20 TO 2:45 P.M.2HALDEMAN:Gray had called Helms... which we knew, andsaid, uh, uh, I think we've run right into the middle of a CIA covert operation.PRESIDENT:Gray said that?HALDEMAN:Yeah, and Helms said "nothing, nothing we'vegot at this point" and uh, uh, Gray said,"sure looks to me like that's what we did."Some damn thing where he had - (unintelligible).We can do about it - this would require atall and, uh, that was the end of thatconversation. You can fix it so (unintelligible) we don't, so(unintelligible) we don' t think(unintelligible). Said, well, the problem is that it tracks back to the Bay of Pigs. It tracks back to some other - if their leadsrun out to people who had no involvement inthis except by the contacts or connections, but it gets to areas that are at the (unintelligible) to be raised. The wholeproblem of this, this fellow Hunt, uh...So at that point Helms's kind of got, thepicture, kind of like the picture.(unintelligible)...he, he said, he said, "We ' 11 be veryhappy to be helpful to, ah, you know, and we'll handle everything you want. I wouldlike to know the reason for being helpful."And it may have appeared when he wasn't gonna get it explicitly but was gonna get itthrough generality. So he said fine, anduh, Walters. I don't know whether we can do it. Walters said that. (Laughs) Walters is gonna make a call to Gray.(Unintelligible) that' s the way we put it,that's the way it, was left, and, uh, (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:How would that work though? How would - forexample, if they're desperate (unintelligible) got somebody from Miami bank to be here to count the inventory.JUNE 23, 1972 FROM 2:20 TO 2:45 P.M.3HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) they can do thatunintelligible). Somebody (unintelligible). But, the point John made was the Bureaudoesn't, the Bureau is going on, on thisbecause they don't know what they're uncovering. (Unintelligible) say shouldcontinue to pursue it, uh, they don't needto because they've already got their case as far as the, uh, charges against these men,(unintelligible) and uh, as they pursueit because they're uncovering some(unintelligible).Sure enough, that's exactly what - but we didn't in any waysay we had any political -... interest or concern or anything likethat, uh, unintelligible) One thing Helms did raise is he said that, that Gray, heasked Gray why he felt they're going into aCIA thing and Gray said,"Well, because of the characters involved and the amount of money involved." Said there's a lot ofdough in this someone and uh,(unintelligible) here is the possibility that one of our guys - that probably hassome significance to the question(unintelligible)PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) Well, we'll cross thatbridge.HALDEMAN:Well, I think they will 'cause our, seethere isn't any question.PRESIDENT:If it runs back to the bank - so, what thehell, they, who knows, maybe Dahlberg'scontributed to the CIA (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:CIA gets money as we know 'cause, I meantheir money moves in a lot of differentways, too.PRESIDENT:Yeah. However we thought that it did a lotof good. (unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Right.********** PRESIDENT:Can you imagine what Kennedy would have donewith that money?