Transcript of a Dictabelt Recordingof a Conversation Between HowardHunt and Charles Colson, November1972COLSON:Hello.HUNT:Hi. COLSON:How we doin'?HUNT:Well, uh, about as can be expected. How areyou?COLSON:Uh, just about the same Christ tryin' to holdthe pieces together.HUNT:Yeah. Congratulations on your victory.COLSON:Thank you. Uh, you, uh, I'm sorry that uh, wehaven't been celebrating it together with some,uh, good champagne and, uh, good scotch, butuh, (unintelligible)...HUNT:(Laughs) (Unintelligible) may yet come a time.Who knowsCOLSON:It'll come, I assure ya. Let me, uh, let mebefore you say anything, let me say a couple of things. One, uh, I don't know what's going on here other than, I am told that, uh, uh,everybody's gonna come out all right. That'sall I knowHUNT:Uh huhCOLSON:And, uh, I've deliberately not asked anyspecific questions.HUNT:Right. COLSON:For this reason: that, uh, I have my own ideasabout how things'll turn out...HUNT:uh huh. COLSON:but-and I'm not worried about &#8218;em and youshouldn't be-but, I've always thought that ifit came to a, uh, open trial that I would wanna be free to, uh, come into2COLSON:it and, uh, uh, character and, uh testimonyand, uh, etc, etc,HUNT:Yes. Un hmm.COLSON:Uh, therefore the less details I know of what'sgoing on, in some ways the better.HUNT:Yes, I appreciate that.COLSON:This is all. So, I have tried to stay out, uh,of asking specific questions, and it's very hard for me to do that for the reason that you're an old and dear friend and, uh, uh, I'msure you, you regret the day I ever recommendedyou to the White House.HUNT:Not in the least, Chuck, I'm just sorry that itturned out the way it did.COLSON:Well, I am too, obviously, and I, I hope thehell you had nothing to do with it and I've clung to that belief and have told people that,and uh, and if you did have anything to do withit, I'm god-damn sure it's because you were doing what you were told to do...HUNT:That's exactly right...COLSON:...&#8218;cause you're a loyal soldier, obviously,and always have been...HUNT:Would you be willing to...COLSON:...for your country.HUNT:(Laughs) Would you be, ah, ah, willing toreceive a memorandum from me?COLSON:Well, the only-yeah. UhHUNT:For your general information...COLSON:Yeah, except... HUNT:...'cause I think it might help you. I...3COLSON:...except, there are things you may not want totell meHUNT:No, there's really nothing I don't want to tellyou, I would think that you could receive thismemorandum, read it, and destroy it.COLSON:No, I couldn't.HUNT:You couldn't do thatCOLSON:Nope. The reason I can't is the same reason-your letter to me -when I got that and then I was asked by federal authorities did I ever-hadI had any communication, I said, &#64257;Yeah, I'vereceived this letter and here's here it is.&#64258; You know, I, I can't--- you can't get in theposition where you're, uh, perjuring.HUNT:No, of course not. COLSON:So, I.... HUNT:Which I'm afraid John Mitchell has already doneCOLSON:WellCOLSON:...I can't-the problem is, you see, I don'twant to get in the position of, uh, uh, I don't want to get in the position of knowingsomething that I don't now know for the reasonthat, I wanna be perfectly free to help ya, and the only way I can help Ya and the only way Ican help ya is, uh to remain as completely uh,you know, unkowing as I am.HUNT:I see COLSON:See, my problem-let me tell ya the problem-isthat, uh, well, I can do you a lot more goodby, by not know-by honestly being able to testify that I don't know, just don't know theanswer, uh, and I don't4HUNT:Uh huh.COLSON:And right now I don't know anything about theGoddamn Watergate. Now...HUNT:Yeah.COLSON:...supposing Teddy Kennedy holds his hearings,and I get called up there. Well uh, I can'trefuse to answer and I wouldn't. I'd answerthat, uh, I just don't know. I had no idea what happened.HUNT:Yeah, uh hmmCOLSON:And I don'tHUNT:Of course, I'm never going to be put on thestand, as it stands now.COLSON:That's right.HUNT:And, uh, so I won't have the opportunity to sayone, one thing or another.COLSON:Well, you don't want to.HUNT:You wouldn't be willing to talk to myattorney--wouldn't that be a different affair?COLSON:Uh, (pause) I don't know, Howard, I don't knowwhether it is or it isn't. He would...HUNT:That would...COLSON:...He would know best, as it were. HUNT:...that was a suggestion of his.COLSON:Well, hell, I'll talk to him, that's not aproblem. I mean I'll be glad to talk to him, I'm sure that you're being watched.HUNT:Oh, I am too.COLSON:And uh, not by federal authorities...5HUNT:No, no.COLSON:I'm sure the Washington Post is watching you. HUNT:No. Ah--well, the reason I called you was tomake, uh--get back to the beginning, here--isbecause of commitments, uh, that were made to all of us at onset, have not been kept. Andthere's a great deal of unease and concern onthe part of seven defendants and possibly, well I'm quite sure, me least of all. But, uh, there's a great deal of uh, of uh, financialexpense here that is not been covered and whatwe've been getting has been coming in, uh, very minor dribs and drabs. And, uh, Parkinson,who's been the go-between with my attorneydoesn't seem to be very effective and we're now reaching a point at which, uh...COLSON:Okay. You've told me all, all, that,that--don't tell me any moreHUNT:Okay COLSON:...'cause I, I understand that--lemme, lemmjust, uh...HUNT:Because these people have really got todig--this is a long haul thing but stakes are very, very high...COLSON:(unintelligible)...HUNT:...and I thought that you would want to knowthat this thing must not break apart, uh, for foolish reasons.COLSON:I agree. Yeah. Oh no Christ no. Everybodygets...HUNT:Yeah.COLSON:...gets, uh...HUNT:Well, and while we get, uh you know third,fourth hand reassurances, still, the, &#64257;the ready" is not available.COLSON:Um hmm.HUNT:(laughs) COLSON:I follow,6HUNT:That's the basic problemCOLSON:I follow ya. I follow ya. Okay. Well, that'sthat--you, you've told me all I need to knowHUNT:All right.COLSON:And, uh, and I can&#352;I mean I&#352;the, the less Iknow really of--HUNT:OkayCOLSON:...Uh, what, what happened, the more help I canbe to you.HUNT:All right, now, we've set a deadline now forclose of business on the 25th of November forthe resolutions, the liquidation of everything that's outstanding.COLSON:Um hmm.HUNT:And this is&#352;I'm now talking about promises fromJuly and August.COLSON:Um hmm.HUNT:There just, uh, been a apparent, uh, unconcern,uh,-- of course, we can understand some hestitancy prior to the election, but there doesn't seem to be any of that now. Of coursewe're well aware of the upcoming problems ofthe Senate, and, uh...COLSON:Well, that's where it gets hairy as hellHUNT:(Unintelligble) other things.COLSON:--for your information, H-,Howard, uh, thisthing&#352;of course this thing has hurt hurt us all because, uh, uh everybody&#352;it, w-, it, it, it'sjust unfortunate as hell. But,...HUNT:Uh hmm.7COLSON:...but the Democrats made such an issue out ofthe whole goddamn...HUNT:Well, on the other hand, it...COLSON:Well, I always thought when I write my memoirsof this book---of this campaign&#352;that I'm gonna say that the Watergate was brillianty conceivedas an escapade that would, uh, divert theDemocrats' attention from the real issues, and therefore permit us to win a landslide that we probably wouldn't have won otherwise.HUNTAND COLSON:(Laughter)COLSON:Seriously!HUNT:Whether you believed it or not. COLSON:No, I&#352;listen, I think there's a little&#352;there'sa good bit of validity to that thesis.HUNT:I do too. Um Hmm.COLSON:I really do. Dumb bastards were, uh, were on anissue that the public couldn't care less about&#352; really.HUNT:You see, I, I haven't known at any time whatsort of an input you were getting from Dean and other people...COLSON:Minimum.HUNT:...about who was responsible for all of this. COLSON:Minimum for, for very good reasons, because ifsomebody told me...HUNT:Yeah.8COLSON:See h-, let me tell you the position I'm in. I,I, whether I stay in the White House for a while or whether I leave---doesn't matter&#352;Iwanna to be in a position to help you.HUNT:Right. COLSON:Okay, that means I have to be able to openlytalk to people...HUNT:Um hmm COLSON:...and, uh, and no matter who it is, d'uh, froma character standpoint or anything else, beable to say things about you that I wanna say.Now, I can'' do that the moment I know something that makes it impossible for me totalk to people.HUNT:Right. COLSON:And the moment I know something that makes itimpossible for me to talk to people...HUNT:Um-hmm.COLSON:...then I gotta be, then I gotta be uh, uh,kept, uh, in the background and can't talk.HUNT:Yes.COLSON:And I wanna talk. So (laughs)...COLSON:As long as I can help ya, and I'm gonna, I'mgonna see that, I'm gonna see that you don'tget a bad break out of this an' tell yousometime about that.HUNT:I would hope that, uh, somewhere along theline, uh, the uh, uh, people who were paralizedinitially by this within the White House wouldnow start to give, uh, some creative, uh, thinking to the affair. And uh...9COLSON:Oh, that's fine, that's true.HUNT:...and, and some, uh, affirmative action forChrist's sake.COLSON:That's true. That's true.HUNT:I mean, T think now is the time for it. And weexpect it now and, and we want it.COLSON:Yep.HUNT:And, uh, the election's out of the way, uh,initial terror of a number of people has subsided, some people have already left theadministration, and that's all to the good.COLSON:Um hmm. HUNT:So now it's pared down to the point where, uh,a few people ought to be able to reallyconcentrate on this, get the goddamn thing out of the way once and for all.COLSON:Um hum.HUNT:Because, uh, I don't want to, uh (laughs) boreyou with what it's been like, but it hasn't been pleasant for any of us.COLSON:Oh, Jesus Christ I know it. I hope you're doingsome writing to keep yourself busy, and, uh,...HUNT:Oh, I am. Yeah, I am. I don't know ifanything'll ever come of it, but it's a good-uh, well, it keeps my mind from from my plight.(Laughs)COLSON:Um hum. HUNT:Put it that way. (Laughs). So that, uh, uh I, Iwas never clear in my own mind and I'm stillnot and I'm not going to ask you, that, uh, one of the initial outputs, uh, that I had readabout was, well, uh this is done by a bunch ofwild-assed guys, and so forth. Well that's fine,10HUNT:after all we're protecting the guys who, whowere really responsible. But now that's uh,-and then of course that's a continuing, uh,requirement, but at the same time, this is atwo-way street.COLSON:Um hum. Um hum.HUNT:And uh, as I said before, we think that now isthe time when, uh some moves should be made and, uh, surely your cheapest commodity available is money. These lawyers have not beenpaid.COLSON:Hmm. HUNT:There are large sums of money outstanding.That's the principal thing. Our livingallowances which are due again on the 31st ofthis month, uh, that, we want that stuff well in hand and for some months in advance.COLSON:Um Hum.HUNT:I, I think these are all reasonable requests.They were all promised in advance and uh, ah, reaffirmed from time to time to my attorney,and so forth. So in turn, I've been givingcommitments to the people who look to me.COLSON:Um Hum.HUNT:And, uh...COLSON:I follow, I'm reading it. HUNT:SO, I know you are. COLSON:You don't, you don't need to be, don't need tobe more explicit.HUNT:...I don't, I don't want to belabor it. COLSON:No, it isn't a question of that. It's justthat, uh, less, the less specific I know thebetter off I am.11HUNT:Okay.COLSON:The better off we are-you are. HUNT:All right.COLSON:(Laughs) You know.HUNT:So, Parkinson, uh Parkinson is out of town &#8218;tilnext Monday, at which time a memorandum isgonna be laid on him and he's going to be madeaware of the...COLSON:I'll tell you one thing I've said to people.And uh, I just want you to know this because Ithink it's important. I have told people thetruth, that I have known you for a long time. That, uh I've, considered you a personalfriend. Uh, you're a personal in whom I've hadhigh regard and high confidence a patriot, real patriot-and that had you ever been the one masterminding this, it never would have fallenapart. That the reason that I am convinced-andI told this to the federal authorities and the Grand Jury-uh, the reason that I am convinced that you, Howard Hunt, never had a goddamnthing to do with this, or if you did haveanything to do with it, it was on the peripheries, is that if you ever did it, you'ddo it a lot smarter than this. And uh, youknow, that I've known how you've operated over the years.HUNT:Chuck, if, uh, if I'd had my say, it neverwould have been done at all.COLSON:Well, o.k. HUNT:Let me put it that way.COLSON:Say no more.HUNT:The position of another fellow too.12COLSON:Say no more.HUNT:All right. &#8218;Cause there's, there was, uh... COLSON:Say no more.HUNT:...high risk, low gain. O.k.COLSON:Well, I never knew about-you know, course,obviously I never...HUNT:That's right.COLSON:...knew of the goddamn thing. HUNT:There was no &#338;and I've always maintained to, tomy attorney, uh, who, of course has my completeconfidence in this matter, that uh...COLSON:Um hum. HUNT:...that you absolutely had nothing to do withit.COLSON:No shit! Well, I'll tell ya, if I'd never knownit was comin', I would have said to you as a friend...HUNT:Yeah.COLSON:...if some asshole wants to do this, fine, butdon't you get in-, involved.HUNT:Yeah.COLSON:I mean, if, if, y-, you and I, if we'd ever hadever had a conversation like that, I would have said, my god...HUNT:Yeah.COLSON:...don't, don't-you know. But, b-b-but thepoint, the point, I, I've made is that you're a smart-amo-among many other qualities,13COLSON:you are a brilliant operator, and brilliantoperators just don't get into this kind of a thing. So I've I've held-an, and I was askedbut, -and this is why I don't want to knowanything different. This was why I was asked by the Bureau, &#64257;Well, what about, uh, uh, whatabout Hunt?&#64258; And I'd say, &#64257;Well,&#64258; I couldhonestly say, &#64257;Look, I've known this guy a long time, he's a very smart fellow, and I can't for the life of me conceive that he would ever gethimself into this kind of a situation.&#64258; So Iwant to be able to stay in that position. That's why I don't, I don't want you to tell meanything (laughs)...HUNT:Yeah. COLSON:...beyond that. Give my love to Dorothy, willyou.HUNT:All right, I will. And, uh...COLSON:I know it's hard on you and the kids, and, and,uh...HUNT:It's awful tough, my daughter up at Smith isreally getting a rough time.COLSON:Is she really? HUNT:(Clears throat) Very, very hard time, yeah.COLSON:Well, you know I tell ya, uh, I find that,that, uh, it's only the rough experiences in life- and you've had your share of them, God knows-uh, that really harden ya and somethingoutta ya, and, uh, you learn by &#8218;em and becomea better man for it and uh, uh-we'll talk about that there. Y-you'll come out of this fine. I'mpositive of that.HUNT:Well, I want all of us to come out of it fine. COLSON:Yeah, it's just a goddamn shame. HUNT:Including you.14COLSON:Well, I'm, you know, I'm, m-my position. eh,eh, I suppose has been hurt in one sense that I've been, had been publically tarred by-obviously people around here know I didn't haveanything to do with it. But, so be it. We'll all come out of it. Don't worry about that.That's the last thing to worry about. And uh, Iunderstand this message and let me uh...HUNT:Okay. If you can (unintelligible)... COLSON:...lemme get it (unintelligible)HUNT:...to me about it, I, I would think the soonerthey can get moving on it, the better.COLSON:Okay.HUNT:All right.COLSON:Great, Howard. HUNT:Good to talk to you... COLSON:Take care.HUNT:And I'll discuss with Bittman whether he stillfells that he needs to talk to you.COLSON:All right, and, uh, as soon as, I feel that thesituation-the future of the thing is clearingenough...HUNT:Yeah. COLSON:...that you and I can get together, we're damnwell going to do it. But, I don't want to doit...HUNT:No, no, no... COLSON:...prematurely, because what it'll do is cause-well, it'll limit my ability to help ya.15HUNT:I, uh-Chuck, I understand that completely...COLSON:I'm sure you do, you know... HUNT:...believe me...COLSON:...it's, it's-I'm in a better position...HUNT:...which is why I never tried to get in touchwith you.COLSON:...I'm in a better position to help ya, uh, ifI can honestly swear under oath, which I can do, I don't know a goddamn thing about it. And I don't. And, uh, as long as I'm in thatposition, then I can say what kind of a guy Ithink Howard Hunt is and why I think this is a bum rap. Okay?HUNT:OkayCOLSON:Take care Howard. We'll be in touch. HUNT:All right. Is your family all right? COLSON:Oh, they're doing fine.HUNT:You're boy's doing well in school, I'm sure...COLSON:Yeah, he's doing great. And uh,... HUNT:(Laughs) COLSON:He's at Princeton, and he's takin' you know,he's takin' a lotta heat, just like you'retalkin' about. Uh...HUNT:Oh, he must have. Yeah.COLSON:Oh, sure, I mean when, when, uh...HUNT:Well, ab-, about the only counsel I can give mydaughter, is that people who would do that sort of thing are the kind who would pull the wingsoff flies.COLSON:Um hmm. HUNT:And they're no really the sort of people shewould really want to have as friends or even asassociates, in any case.16COLSON:Well, I said the same thing to my son, youknow, when the indictments were announced.HUNT:Yeah.COLSON:He said everybody at Princeton said, uh, "Well,your old man beat the rap."HUNT:Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's sort of...COLSON:Isn't that, isn't that great?HUNT:Yeah. COLSON:You know, doesn't that make you feel wonderful?Jesus, and I said the same thing to him, andhe's gotten so he doesn't (unintelligible).That's the price, that's the price you pay for serving your country and, you know, you'regonna take the good with the bad. That's all.So, if, you believe in what you're doin', you believe in what you're doin', that's what you have to--that has to be the ultimateconsolation for all of us.HUNT:Well, it does indeed. Are you going to be ableto take some time off? (Unintelligible).COLSON:God, I hope so, Howard. I'm plannin' to inDecember sometime.HUNT:Yeah. COLSON:If I can possibly wheel outta here. Butuh--well, you take care of yourself. Don't letit get you. Don't let it, don't let it, uh, don't let it wear down the great spirit...HUNT:O.k.COLSON:And uh, uh, we got the President in for fouryears, and thank God for the country we do, so...HUNT:Exactly, yes.COLSON:That's, uh--you know when you go to sleep atnight you can put up with a lot of personal grief if you think that, uh17COLSON:there are alw-, there are always things biggerthan yourself. You know that, really that's true. The moment in life when things are notbigger than yourself, then you're all washedup.HUNT:Oh yes. Yeah.COLSON:You and I know that, we've spent our lives thatway...HUNT:Well, I've had a lifetime of serving mycountry, and in a sense I'm still doing it.COLSON:That's right. Damn right. Okay, pal.HUNT:O.k. Good talking to you. COLSON:We'll be talking.HUNT:(Unintelligible).COLSON:Thank you. Bye-Bye.