TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETINGBETWEEN THE PRESIDENT AND H. R. HALDEMANIN THE OVAL OFFICE, ON MARCH 20, 1973,FROM 6:00 TO 7:10 P.M.PRESIDENT:Well, I'm trying to figure out withEhrlichman what the strategy should be onthis, uh, Watergate (unintelligible) thereal problem here.HALDEMAN:I think John is pretty much out of touch asI am, now. We kind of stayed away from it.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). He has a feeling which ofcourse is mine, too, and, uh, I believe it. (Pause) Trouble is...HALDEMAN:...that's the key, if we could just -PRESIDENT:Dean and Haldeman, Moore is but you can'tfind any way to have any kind of a statement made (unintelligible) that they thinkdoesn't open up too many other problems. Ofcourse, they're concerned about what will happen when the Judge sentences. (Unintelligible) well -HALDEMAN:Sentencing is that this week?PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:Right.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:That's the thing, there's just so goddamnedmany factors and (unintelligible) people.PRESIDENT:And that's what Dean -HALDEMAN:Sure.PRESIDENT:McCord didn't want to go to jail(unintelligible) jail sentence(unintelligible) decided to talk. I said,"What the hell's he doing? (Pause)HALDEMAN:McCord? (Pause) He would have a lot onMitchell. (unintelligible)PRESIDENT:He worked for Mitchell? I guess Mitchell and(unintelligible) are trying mess with Grand Jury (unintelligible) (Pause) U.S. Attorney- (unintelligible) (Pause)PRESIDENT:Kleindienst always talks so very tough.(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:You sure of that? PRESIDENT:He and Mitchell sure weren't very strong(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:That's kind of ironic when his own, his ownU.S. Attorney comes back to bug him.PRESIDENT:Yeah. (Pause) I told John one thing which Iam convinced of, we've got to get somethingsthat have got to be said (unintelligible) around there. Something that has got to be said. (Unintelligible) you can't sit inthere thinking everybody down here isshutting up. (unintelligible) That's the precedent I'm afraid (unintelligible).Don't you think that's true to thecircumstances?HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) terribly sensitive aboutthe goddamned thing.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:We ought to do something (unintelligible).The question is what - (unintelligible) tellyour own people.HALDEMAN:You've got to answer to people PRESIDENT:Say that they don't want to...HALDEMAN:Does Dean feel we can't do that even to ourown people? Well, yeah, you can't because then if they go out and say that's all there is then one more thing comes, then you're,you're even more sunk.PRESIDENT:Well, I'm not so sure. HALDEMAN:At least that's what's worried John allalong. How do you get...PRESIDENT:That's what worries me more. But, I'm not so sure that whrest. I didn't do this, I didn't do that,da da da da, da da da da, da da da da, da dada da. Haldeman didn't do this, Ehrlichmandidn't do that. Colson didn't do that. (Unintelligible) see? That's what I reallythink needs to be --, uh, they need to hearit from somebody that basically that's what- they've got to know that I have been toldthat, that's really what it gets down to. Rather than let the feeling, the uneasy feeling that somehow maybe the White Housestaff is keeping things from me that I don'tknow or something we're afraid to have the people talk about. Well, isn't that reallyall there is (unintelligible) we don't wantto talk about up there, but the god-damned Klieg lights. It isn't that we are afraid of facts, we certainly are afraid ofpublicity.HALDEMAN:Well, I guess you've gone through that mess. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Well, you know - go back to that...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligble) HALDEMAN:I guess we have and it would be pretty badbecause of the way - (pause) everybody wantsto go.(Pause)PRESIDENT:When that decision was made you know(unintelligible) But I certainly didn't wantto keep it all up there (unintelligible)daily spectacle with television cameras and press.HALDEMAN:But you're gonna have that daily spectaclePRESIDENT:I think you are (unintelligible) I think youare, maybe the point is that makes the papers that we've got a big fish up there.HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:They say that's what made the McCarthyhearings.HALDEMAN:And you never know what any of the big fishwill do when they get up there and then we all said we want to go up and all that, but if they lob one in you're not expecting -you don't know what -how good a witnesshe'll be.PRESIDENT:It's a tough goddamned thing -(unintelligible)HALDEMAN:...when you get...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) goddamned thing. That'sright.HALDEMAN:And then when you get (unintelligible) PRESIDENT:You don't, there's a thing Mat I'm franklyconcerned about more than I am about whatthey might reveal in this version. I don't want (unintelligible) get up there in frontof that goddamned committee and gear theirquestion on the log out of somewhere they know something.HALDEMAN:Well, see the thing is...PRESIDENT:the perjury hit.HALDEMAN:I know, yeah, but see, they're protectingthe wrong people.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:...'cause think people who are gonna go forperjury already have and will do it again and are going to be up there anyway.PRESIDENT:You mean like Magruder?HALDEMAN:Well, I guess Magruder comes under your,your new current executive privilege rules. He was on the White House staff, too.PRESIDENT:Magruder was?HALDEMAN:Well, not at the time of the incident.That's right. So, so, that doesn't count -you know. That's right.PRESIDENT:That son-of-a-bitch. HALDEMAN:No, he wasn't. He was, he was over theCommittee and he was White House at onepoint, but obviously he can't exerciseprivilege on --PRESIDENT:...after he leaves,PRESIDENTafter he leaves while he was hereAND HALDEMAN:(unintelligible)HALDEMAN:So that would cover Chapin, who would notcover Magruder. Cover Colson, who would notcover Howard Hunt. (Pause) Cover Dean, whowould not cover Liddy. (Unintelligible) (Pause)PRESIDENT:Our position... (Pause)HALDEMAN:Well the other, uh, would cover Strachan.I know they're concerned about Strachan. (Unintelligible)(20 second pause)PRESIDENT:You see I wondered whether - just as well(unintelligible) beware (Pause).HALDEMAN:You see, the problem with Strachan - they'reworried about Strachan getting - gettinginto the White House. I don't think that's a problem because -Strachan has no, as I understand it, no criminal thing. Becausehe wasn't directing it, he was simply awareof what was going on. But if he doesn't perjure himself and he has to answer onawareness -he can't take the 5th because hedoesn't have any incrimination. He, he does have a problem, be-cause I think he knows wh- what happened over there. That's wherehe gets into trouble.PRESIDENT:But hasn't he already been questioned? HALDEMAN:Yeah, but but, I don't think he answered -he forgot, and Strachan, from what Dean toldme, Strachan said he just didn't know that.He wasn't very well questioned and he's only been questioned by the FBI and they, theyonly questioned him on Segretti.PRESIDENT:Wonder why they're question, questioning himat all. I don't understand.HALDEMAN:Well, it never occurred to him, I don'tthink and I'm not sure it ever would, unlesssomeone accidentally asked him a question. I'm not sure how much he knows aboutWatergate anyway, but from what Dean tellsme, I think he knew a fair amount. 'Cause I think he knew - see, Strachan's job was to know, was to keep on top of everything thatwas going on.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Then Magruder knows that's the point(unin-telligible) who would tell thatStrachan knew that's what I mean.HALDEMAN:Magruder might tell what Strachan knew -yeah, - but only that he knew...PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:Not that he had no authority - no, no -uh...PRESIDENT:...participation... HALDEMAN:participation . - He was an observer.(Pause) The danger you got there is that heprobably, and I possibly, got reports on some of that stuff.PRESIDENT:Sure. I'm aware of that.HALDEMAN:And if I did, I didn't know it. ButStrachan did know because he gave me, - you know, stuff that thick and I never looked atit. On all campaigns, budgets, personnelthings and everything else.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) Dean say he's discoveredfor us, of course, he didn't know what thehell they were about. (Unintelligible) The main thing is don't get anybody up there on perjury where they can prove and sentence.(unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Strachan? I don't think (unintelligible)what Strachan'll do is,he may go on contempt but not perjury. Contempt on refusal toremember.PRESIDENT:I don't think, he doesn't go at all. HALDEMAN:He goes on inability to remember.PRESIDENT:Well, he doesn't perjury charge, perjurycharge unless they charge him with a crime. Then he has to go down. Anybody who's charged with a crime has to go down. That'sthe Ad, Adams' question.HALDEMAN:Well, if that's the case, why the helldidn't they charge everybody with a crimeon, on complicity or something.PRESIDENT:Can't do it. Won't stand up. (Pause) Justmake a, just making a charge is not enough-- What I meant is -HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:I think it has to be... HALDEMAN:Be indicted (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:...evidence, get some evidence that ah,er...(Pause)HALDEMAN:God it's ridiculous. PRESIDENT:Oh! God! It really does. (Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:The irony and the stupidity of that wholething is...PRESIDENT:But also, the credibility of, uh, stuff inthe of, uh, with a double standard.HALDEMAN:I know. PRESIDENT:It's hard to believe, uh - I've just givenup. I mean Colson was telling me that we'vegot all sorts of stuff on the Democratic -(unintelligible) not a God damned thing - not a thing (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Really?PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:Well does Chuck's - I guess Chuck's talkedwith Dean (unintelligible) John Dean - Chuckthinks he has.PRESIDENT:Well, you know what I mean, stuff like that. HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Unintelligible) you would think that whenthey were doing all their stuff at theconventions and demonstrations. Christ even, Christ even the FBI shout haveinvestigated that. Ziegler says(unintelligible)HALDEMAN:They didn't - didn't - did not. It was doneon their behalf, but not at their directionand they can probably...(20 second pause)PRESIDENT:When you talk to Henry, let's put it in thenegative. I will simply say that I hadmentioned the fact that you and I - that you would raise a point (unintelligible) significant risk we have to weigh (20 secondunintelligible)HALDEMAN:He'll probably feel that we can't talk.PRESIDENT:Is that right? Horse-feathers. So he toldyou he should take a vacation.HALDEMAN:Oh, yeah. Every goddamned word end the waythat he did - you know - never even, uh, crossed my mind to raise any question withyou because it was - he did it in such a waythat I - you know if you had said - if you had told him that you wanted to take time,said get a vacation - (noise) - wanted toget away from the Democrats and I think he did mention - the idea of going to Acapulco (unintelligible) maybe at that point. I'llbe darned.PRESIDENT:I know I didn't. I know I didn't. Ithought he was thinking of California. ButI, - he planned that he was going to stayout there and I said, "That's great. That's a good time to spend a couple of weeks." Palm Springs.HALDEMAN:Well, you're right, because that's what Ithought he was gonna do.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) I was so surprised when hewent back, I thought really if any paper hadgot through this damn troop withdrawal(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:That is kind of surprising that...PRESIDENT:Yeah, I think his, ...HALDEMAN:I think that's his concern. PRESIDENT:Well, that's nice. Ehrlichman's point iswell taken in one sense - and he says reallyright now we've got to get (unintelligible).You're going to get - you're going to get hung for it anyway, you might as well getthe Goddamned hanging over with.HALDEMAN:You've (unintelligible) ahead of time. Thatmeans to say that does that?PRESIDENT:This is going to be...HALDEMAN:Dean's theory is that you don't - you aren'tnecessarily going to get hung. It depends upon what you defined by hang. There's noquestion we're going to get smeared.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:There's no question that they're going tokeep building the innuendo that will leadinto the White House and will be able to come to some - proof.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:What they'll call proof - consider proof -on the basis that, that uh - oh, the line of reasoning they're using now, that DwightChapin wouldn't have done anything that Ididn't know about it.PRESIDENT:That's right. I understand. HALDEMAN:Or it might -- that wasn't in my orders andcertainly Gordon Strachan did.PRESIDENT:That's right. HALDEMAN:Uh - that's only partly true, but it's a,it's a, sustainable assumption - but thatpart - we can live with it and I - I see all four of them. Now, I'd like to go out and have us go out now and hit - if you takethat part of the case and hit mine andadmit. Say, say it's absolutely true - I knew that Chapin was recruiting an old college friend of his to go out and runaround doing Dick Tuck stuff, which isabsolutely true, I did know. I did not know the guy's name. I did not know the guy. Idid not know what he was going to do. I didnot know what we were going to pay him. I did know that Chapin was going to authorize some payment to him to cover his expensesand, uh, his basic income.PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:That he was going to work full time on thisand was going to try to recruit othercollege type guys to do this kind of stuff.PRESIDENT:Intelligence work (unintelligible)? HALDEMAN:Not really intelligence. 'Cause that wasn'twhat was talked about. See, he wasn'tengaged in this - at least I don't think he was engaged in espionage. He was engagedin, in...PRESIDENT:... tricks.HALDEMAN:Yeah, I think some of em got a little --that's a euphemistic term for them -- someof em cause he did get a little far on the tricks. But they talked about, when they talked about doing it, the kind of tricksthat I said, for Christ's sake don't foolaround with stuff like -- they were gonna cut cars, cut tires on press buses, you knowand take the keys out of cars in motorcadesand that sort of stuff. I said that's ridiculous, it's childish and doesn't do us any good. So I...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:... What does do us some good is to have aguy standing around with a sign saying"McGovern, what about your illegitimatedaughter" or something. I hope we never used that one.PRESIDENT:But, because we were ready to...HALDEMAN:Yeah. (Unintelligible) but, uh, so I knew.They were getting a guy and Chapin did do it with, with my concurrence and Strachan was a friend of the guy's too. I knew that. ThatI have no problem with saying.PRESIDENT:I understand (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:And, I don't think that hurts you.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:Just say I did that. The problem is - can'tthe truth stop at the truth. Which that does or does the innuendo - go so - comethen so hard on top of it that you can'tturn it off.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) it goes to the truthHALDEMAN:It goes to the Watergate or which - it seemsto me, we ought to be able to turn off, but the problem is the price of turning it off may hurt the people on Watergate side. Atleast, that's what they tell me. Whatbothers me is that I still think I'm being had in a sense for being tarred in order toprotect some other people.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah.HALDEMAN:I think Chapin is being far worse tarred inorder to protect other peoplePRESIDENT:Yeah. The people on the Watergate sideunfortunately are also our friends.HALDEMAN:The people on the Watergate side are ourfriends and there is far more seriousness ifthere - this thing you can say was bad judgment on my part to let Chapin do this or- I can say it was bad judgment on Chapin'spart to let the guy go as far as he did, or Chapin can say it was bad judgment on Segretti's part...PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:...to do some of the things he did. PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:That's, that's probably right. All the wayup to, to maybe bad judgment on my part, but on Watergate it isn't a question of bad judgment. On Watergate it's a question andthere it goes and, ultimately, it seems tome that's what they have got to focus on. And this - who was it that was teeing me that, uh, what - or convinced they're goingto go after this - this is Ziegler's,Ziegler's theories based on the press club status -convinced that what they're after isColson - on criminal - they think he's thehighest guy they can get on criminal in the White House and Mitchell on the outside. Now, there ah the worst - it isn't the worstyou can get to is damn had out there.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) HALDEMAN:Because if Mitchell was the authority.PRESIDENT:He's the Attorney General of the U.S.HALDEMAN:As Attorney General of the U.S. and... PRESIDENT:The President's campaign manager. That'spretty goddamned bad. That's damn near asbad as it is out here. Do you agree withthis?HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:...problemsHALDEMAN:And their - if you have .PRESIDENT:protect them to protect them .Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:then you have to - then you start workingyour way back down that chain again and, andmaybe you can't turn it off somewhere andthat's what John Dean where he comes out every time we go around this circle.PRESIDENT:Yes, sir.HALDEMAN:Then you get to the thing with Segretti.Here is a potential...PRESIDENT:Segretti?HALDEMAN:...a criminal violation on Segretti, too.PRESIDENT:On what - some mailing? Horse shit, that'sso inconsequential.HALDEMAN:Okay. But then, then, he was Chapin's agentso does that make Chapin criminally liable? Chapin was my employee so does that made me criminally liable?PRESIDENT:Is that a felony?HALDEMAN:No. It's a misdemeanor. PRESIDENT:That's what I mean. HALDEMAN:It's a misdemeanor committed without ourspecific knowledge so I don't see how, howwe're liable.PRESIDENT:Listen... campaigns, there's never a, thatdidn't have a campaign mailing without adisclaimer or, erHALDEMAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:...mailing (unintelligible)HALDEMAN:We had, we had the same thing in'460, uh '62in California - Democrats for Nixon -PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:The Dem. no - the Committee to preserve the,the Committed to Preserve the Democratic Party in California. The thing that crazy woman got us into - Naomi Baxter.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah. You see the point is that it,it isn't just Bob (unintelligible) it is aquestion - (unintelligible) of - big fish,as we mentioned, Colson I knew was going to be hard to prove. I don't - I don't see - I think unless Colson's lying to Steve I meanDean, was questioning him, Dean does notbelieve that Colson - that they (unintelligible) Colson.HALDEMAN:I don't either. And as I've told you I'vebeen convinced all along Colson doesn't - did not know.PRESIDENT:About this?HALDEMAN:About the WatergatePRESIDENT:I don't think he did - except... HALDEMAN:Yep - I don't think he did, eitherPRESIDENT:...(Unintelligible) was saying that uh, ofcourse, this is Magruder's argument, apparently he's made it too, Colson was insisting on getting the information but Idon't know why - I don't know what it wasall a hoax, why he would be involved if they were going to have a -demonstration in San Diego or - not was something I couldn'tquite figure out. Know what I mean? But hewas involved in, in too many things. -HALDEMAN:But Mitchell as you know, was very muchinvolved in the demonstration in San Diego -remember Mitchell came in - very concerned about changing the convention site because he was afraid of in-ability to control SanDiego.PRESIDENT:Oh, yeah. (Pause) Well, there a lot of badbreaks they're in.HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:We got a bad break with the Judge, forexample...HALDEMAN:Monumental bad breaks and a string of 'em -one leading to another.PRESIDENT:This judge, that HALDEMAN:Starting with the just incredible thing ofone was "Time Magazine" this week startedoff a -thing - one lousy part-time nightguard at the Watergate who happened tonotice the tape on the, on the locks on the doors. If he hadn't seen them - the thing probably would have never busted. If youhadn't had Watergate - you wouldn't have hadSegretti. You wouldn't have had any of that stuff.(Pause)Wouldn't have had all that stuff on thecontributors.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) the people that are yellingabout us about, about the old establishment,the Times, (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Well, let's see.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligble)HALDEMAN:The one, one niche that they,and I don'tthink they see here, where they're gonna get but they see there's still an opportunityand they, they're gonna grind away 'til theyeither ex- haust it or - or get to something. (Pause)PRESIDENT:In a sense - Committee get the hearings overin a hurry - the theory that Baker had, which of course I rejected it, wasincredible, Was to get, give us, get, getall of 'em and everybody and all then there (unintelligible) testify and he said choke the goddamned thing for a week and afterthat the people will be bored to death.Well that makes sense provided...HALDEMAN:it doesn't go anywhere.PRESIDENT:No -- Provided YOU can rim the risk ofhaving your people go out there and be asked a lot of tough questions by a smart goddamned lawyer. So, I knew that it'sprobably, we would be better advised tostick. The guy that most wants to stick to is Colson. Obviously, he's, I don't thinkhe wants to be questioned and I can see whybe-cause of other involvements (unintelligible). So, therefore .HALDEMAN:He's the only one who doesn't want to be?PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) fight for executiveprivilege. Obviously, no we're just not going to allow it mainly because we just can't, can't allow that sort of thing tocome out (unintelligible). But then whatyou have to do is to - you gotta fight it through the goddamned courts(unintelligible) for a long time. You'vegot the story of cover- up, that's, that's what's involved.HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:And that's bad. That - that's really worsethan the...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:It isn't really worse - it isn't worse thanJohn Mitchell going to jail - for either perjury or complicity.PRESIDENT:No, no, no, I've, no, I've balanced that up,too. But you see what they're really after he'll take cover-up 'til hell freezes over. You know what I mean? Because, uh,...HALDEMAN:If that's really where it goes and I guessit is.PRESIDENT: But John, but you can't figure Magruder did itby himself. That's what I, I just don'tbelieve Magruder's done much as, -- a competent operator. (Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:I'm not sure if that's, I'm not sure.PRESIDENT:Sounds to me like oh - see that's the onlything that I think they must really think. The in-vestigator thinks, Christ, Magruderwould - a, I mean, a decision like thatwouldn't be made by Magruder. Of course, he was managing manager. Yeah, I think...HALDEMAN:I think, I think it's - now, I think Deanthinks it's possible that it was...PRESIDENT:...that Magruder may have stumbled ontosome-thing, because what do you say?HALDEMAN:Well, done the specific thing on his ownwithin a broad authority that he misinter-preted -PRESIDENT:In other words -- HALDEMAN:In other words Mitchell was clearly awareand fully aware of the Liddy intelligenceoperation. No question about that.PRESIDENT:But maybe not of the specific... HALDEMAN:But maybe not of the specific act and, andit would be perfectly...PRESIDENT:Magruder was aware of the act. HALDEMAN:Well, he says that he wasn't, in court.pause) And, you can even go to that step andbuy it.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Which is that Liddy was, was doing it andon, on, unr under the broad authority butthen, you get down to will Liddy take the heathPRESIDENT:Well, let me say this - but coming back tothe business about trying to get everybodyup there and all the rest - we've got to remember that what, what could be involved. Let' s see. Let' s see the whole view goingup. (Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:It wasn't me and I don't think it has to beDwight, but Dwight Dwight I think may haveto recant some of these (unintelligible) orexplain them.PRESIDENT:Yes-, that's... HALDEMAN:...some of what I said earlier.PRESIDENT:That' s right. Well - uh - what I meantthen --might be an advantage. Let' s see. Oh, it' s what, I mean, uh, maybe myreasoning is fallacious, but our realconcern is Mitchell . (Noise) Maybe they're going to get him anyway .HALDEMAN:Well, John, at least the last I got into itin any detail, John Dean didn' t think so.PRESIDENT:They going to get -- that right? HALDEMAN:See, John Dean' s whole approach as Iunderstand it this is when we went throughit out in California for two full days - (clears throat) what came out is his whole premise - his, his basic approach to this is one of containment - keep it in this box andhe thinks he can. And that box - goes onthe theory that Liddy did it without authority from above and Liddy's beenconvicted of doing it. Liddy was theresponsible guy at the campaign organization. He ' s the highest guy that they've got. The other people wereemployees of Liddy's.PRESIDENT:Well, that' s the way the case stands at themoment. Course the judge blasted the hellout of that Friday. (Unintelligible) didn 't get cooperation and so forth.HALDEMAN:Liddy apparently is a little bit nuts and amasochist and apparently he wants to, looksto the martyrdom of doing this. He kind oflikes it. And that's-true. Maybe that's where it'll stay. That's Dean's - that's his hope. That's what he, he's franticallytrying to keep -- not frantically,persistently trying to keep...PRESIDENT:Liddy'll appeal itHALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) strings inPRESIDENT:Liddy'll appeal it in court. Liddy shouldbeat it. Son-of-a-bitch, they're two of them (unintelligible) Hunt's not it.HALDEMAN:Hunt went and pleaded guilty - they allEibad guilty andPRESIDENT:...he's appealing.HALDEMAN:Liddy and McCord didn't plead guilty.PRESIDENT:Liddy's appealing that HALDEMAN:Liddy's appealing but Liddy's not appealingon uh, merit, on the merits. He's appealingon the, on the errors. Liddy's going forerrors. There you've got anoth- another problem - Liddy's a lawyer, who thinks he'ssmarter than the judge and the court, andthe court prosecutor, which every lawyer seems to have to convince himself of.Liddy's game is purely, as I understand it,his appeal game is purely on errors.PRESIDENT:Oh, sure. HALDEMAN:Then he's apparently got some...At least some possibilitiePRESIDENT:...Sirica?HALDEMAN:Has areas of potential pot challenge someerrors.PRESIDENT:Well, coming back to this, I think Mat theuh, is the, is the coming free of the WhiteHouse people.HALDEMAN:That doesn't impair that other case at all. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) mention (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Because the containment theory works and Idon't see what danger is in our going out- because we don't have anything to say. Thepeople you're protecting by executiveprivilege -- let's face it are - oh Jesus, you got Ehrlichman - I don't know about Ehrlichman. John knows a hell of a lot.PRESIDENT:He does know a hell of a lot but not aboutthis case.HALDEMAN:Doesn't he? Okay. PRESIDENT:not about Watergate. He doesn't know agoddamned thing, unfortunately.HALDEMAN:I don't think he -- (unintelligible). PRESIDENT:He ran the other thing. He ran, youknow,...HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:you know the stuff about... HALDEMAN:Well, can they expand to that - if theycan't what does he do? Sure, he can, there'sno rules of evidence up there by charter is to cover all the campaign activity.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). Fine - fine - but I can't- no - no.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). Ellsberg? PRESIDENT:I can't think now -- no, no --HALDEMAN:Teddy Kennedy? (Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Uh, I don't like it. That's gonna be awfulhard to get to. Thank God - it's in prettygood shape,Pause) ow I don't think we could now however, Idon't think we can shift our ground, andcave on that idea for privilege sake, but I think we have to find a way to makestatements. They will not accept statementsuntil they are free to (unintelligible), that's the theory I'm working on, I'm working on with them now and Dean and Mooreare trying to see -can they save(unintelligible) and, of course, every-thing they say would raise additional questions.But so be it.HALDEMAN:Well,... PRESIDENT:It's better to have statements... HALDEMAN:All right, all right. Look, we've agreed toanswer written interrogation, right, huh?PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:I, for instance, I have to, have to do that,Chapin has to do that.PRESIDENT:Everybody.HALDEMAN:We've all agreed to do that. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Okay, but why the hell don't we do(unintelligible)- instead, instead of, if they submit it, why don't we sit down and do our statement right now.PRESIDENT:That's a nice suggestion.HALDEMAN:Why doesn't Dean ask me the questions that,that the Committee will ask me? Why don't Iwrite my answers down? Why doesn't Chapinwrite his? Why don't we give those to the "Washington Star" and let them print the goddamned things in total tomorrow morning.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:What's wrong with... PRESIDENT:try to-see why couldn't each of you make asworn statement. (Unintelligible) open toomany doors.HALDEMAN:Really? PRESIDENT:Dean, Dean's the expert here.(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Well, why don't we make them and see. Imean with-out putting em out. Why don't we take the step we're doing. We're gonna haveto apparently anyway and so he says we'regonna open too many doors. Aren't they gonna open? We've already agreed to do that anyway.PRESIDENT:Except that they'll - you see his point is -well, anyway let's try it - I don't mind, it's worth trying. His point is we've got -that they will never take the statements soit's never going to happen. That's the other course -that's the problem. They're never gonna take written statements.HALDEMAN:You mean, they won't accept them at all.PRESIDENT:No, no. But that's all right. You see mypoint is the way we end up is - okay, we refuse to go up but they will have a - theywill say we will not accept that(unintelligible) try to get a sub-poena, and we will move to quash - and we'll have acourt test. All right, that's where it'llstand -so forth, fight that out in the courts and try to make a case with the other witnesses - waiting for the court test. Ofcourse (unintelligible) the other way to doit is to -- so that, that, that, rules that out -- and you, have got no statements atall. Now the problem with that confronts mewith me with is - is, that it appears that I covered up... the White House people. I won't let that statement, so - what that'swhat I told Dean and the rest, I said, "Whydon't you make up or why don't you just put out a statement?"' Any kind of a statement.Of course, I said make it as general aspossible but just so somebody can say that the President - that a state-ment has been made through the President, upon which hehas based his statement to the effect thathe has confidence in his staff. See I mean- I mean it looks now that I am just doingthat as a, as a thumb your nose, screw-off.HALDEMAN:Except that everybody seems to accept thefact that there is a Dean report to thePresident on the basis of which thePresident said that.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Maybe.HALDEMAN:And we've now established that - as Iunderstand it, that Dean - no I guess we haven't, but we can, that it was an oral report, not a written report.PRESIDENT:Yeah. (unintelligible) investigation and soforth, but that needs - you see by having a statement, statement prepared, statement orstatements prepared which are delivered tothe Committee, preferably I think delivery (unintelligible), that's what he's working on now - delivery to Eastland perhaps andEastland then puts it out, and the purposeof answering all the recent charges - the most recent charges not everything -HALDEMAN:The Dean charges.PRESIDENT:The Dean charges. And Ziegler said, but,"that raises too many questions - new questions" so, ah, then John Ehrlichman saysthat those questions (Laughs) are gonna beraised anyway.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:That's my point of view that maybe they'regonna be raised anyway.HALDEMAN:I don't understand what Ron means, but maybehe's right. I don't think...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:I've spent more time on this than, thananybody really and I don't know any questions that aren't already out.PRESIDENT:But they - I don't quite know either, that'smy point. I don't know what the hell other questions...HALDEMAN:Well, I think, I think if Ron says it'llraise new questions, the burden of proof ison him. What are they?PRESIDENT:Yeah. I see. HALDEMAN:I don't - I'm not so sure... PRESIDENT:He's already (unintelligible) pepole(unintelligible) something to do. Mostlyhas to do with Segretti and Chapin, that's the thing.HALDEMAN:Well, I don't understand why we can't runthat one out...PRESIDENT:I, I personally think that you've gotta,you've got a bunch - Segretti and Chapin.We just gotta let that one hang out...HALDEMAN:Here's the first thing ... PRESIDENT:... I really do.HALDE MAN:... I don't - in the first place, the guythat knows the most about the Segretti thing is Segretti.PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:The guy that knows the next - well, the guythat knows the next most is Chapin, who is protected. The guy that knows the next most after that is Strachan, who's protected.The guy that knows the next most after thatis Kalmbach, who's not protected. And the guy that knows the next most is me, who'sprotected and that's the end of the Segrettistory I think.PRESIDENT:Yeah. So put it out. HALDEMAN:Okay. The point thereis that the guy thatknows the most is Segretti. He is notprotected.PRESIDENT:So, he's gonna get questioned?HALDEMAN:So, he's gonna get questioned. Now, I'veheard Segretti's - Dean has a two hour tape where he interrogated Segretti and went through the whole damn thing and, maybe I'mstupid, but I listened to the whole tape andfor my dough I'd just as soon play it out on the radio tonight on CBS and let the worldhear it.PRESIDENT:That's my feeling.HALDEMAN:Because what it says to me is, is not nearlyas bad as what I would venture 90% of the people in this country think happened.PRESIDENT:Sure.HALDEMAN:But it does confirm Dwight Chapin recruitedhim and he gives him the details - he had him to dinner at his house and he had -Gordon Strachan was there. But, what thehell, he went to school with Dwight Chapin.PRESIDENT:Already, Bob, that's already put out anyway. HALDEMAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:That's already been put out-HALDEMAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) recruited. What the hell(unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Now Ron's worried because that, that make -'cause we denied - we didn't deny - Ron and Ron had covered that.PRESIDENT:Who denied it? I thoughtHALDEMAN:The press, that Ron, that Ron, see we deniedthe Chapin story in the Post, but he denied it on the basis that it was based onhearsay...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:... and was fundamentally incorrect.PRESIDENT:Fundamentally...HALDEMAN:And it was. PRESIDENT:Yeah - fundamentally - yeah. HALDEMAN:We didn't deny any specifics in it.PRESIDENT:That of course, I think is what we shouldsay. (Unintelligible) fundamentally incorrect - fundamentally.HALDEMAN:All we can - let's go back and make the caseon that.PRESIDENT:Say that the Post story said this, this,this, and this, and I think that's the wayyou want to handle that. For example, thePost story said this, this and this - thisis incorrect. Why? Now what is correct isthis, this, this and this. That's the way you ought to handle that so as to get us off the hook on that. So the Press Secretarydid not lie. Well, my feeling is that -taking a - the, the, the, the, uh, we're not gonna, we're (unintelligible) That's all I'mafter. My feeling is that if the facts aregonna come out in all this period of time, I would rather have us get them out to the extent we can, in a forthcoming way so that(unintelligible)HALDEMAN:I don't know, I don't know if Dean's filledyou in on this stuff. I know another thingthat worries him. This - I'd forgottenabout, that it leads to, cause he's afraid that Sloan...PRESIDENT:Sloan?HALDEMAN:He's afraid that, that you know, he getsSloan up that, that he's...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...that, that he's got to say somethingbecause there's another fact that's nevercome out. They've never tracked down but they could. But and again it appears asterrible, but it isn't at all and the factson it are, are worked out fine. But there was $350,000 in cash transferred out of the campaign fund over to a separate holder andit was under Strachan's control. It was, ina sense, trans-, in essence, transferred to me. What that was supposed to have been, ifyou recall, was $2,000,000, which we, wayback, had told Stans we wanted -it was that leftover cash that we wanted set aside.PRESIDENT:Oh yeah.HALDEMAN:Before reporting and all that - just so itwas there as a reserve fund.PRESIDENT:Yeah. Yeah.HALDEMAN:Well, it got boiled down because ofreporting problems and everything else to where we only moved 350,000. The 350,000 incash was moved.PRESIDENT:And that was used for polls?HALDEMAN:That was - the purpose of that was to be forpolls and everything else. It was not used for polls or anything else. It wasn't used.And that has been transferred back to there-election committee. It was transferred after the, after the election the cc wasmoved back over...PRESIDENT:Uh, I see HALDEMAN:...to, uh, uh, Mardian, not Mardian - uh,LaRue, Fred LaRue and his back up. So, themoney was not spent.PRESIDENT:What's the difference then? HALDEMAN:Okay. The difference is that, thatestablishes, if they want to call it that,you can, you look at the yellow journals and a secret fund that Haldeman controlled, you could say, which I guess I did. Thequestion of who controlled it never arosebecause it was never used. Physically Strachan -- actually Strachan did. That some other guy did. I don't even know whohad it - some, some guy I don't even knowput the stuff in a box, in a safe out in Virginia somewhere, I understand. That'swhere it was held.PRESIDENT:Well, (unintelligible) boxes in everycampaign.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) Not that it worries me, notthat it's ever worried me and I - and maybethere's more to it, than I, there's something to it than I've found.PRESIDENT:Sure (Unintelligible) (Laughs)HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) sir. (Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:Can you sort of, I don't know. Of course,none of us really knows what to do herebecause of...HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) each, each of us filing astate-ment now that's as complete as we canmake it... I need to, each of us filing astatement now - as complete as we can makeit -PRESIDENT:That's right. That's the way.HALDEMAN:...but that it is not a statement under, uh- ...PRESIDENT:...duress...HALDEMAN:...under questioning that, that, uh, saysthere is nothing else to say. I wouldn't say it.PRESIDENT:No.HALDEMAN:I wouldn't say that this is the whole truth. PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:I'd say in relation to the charges...PRESIDENT:Yeah, uh - very good.HALDEMAN:...that have been raised PRESIDENT:charges that have been made and then I'll beglad to answer any other questions.HALDEMAN:Yeah. PRESIDENT:Yeah. I would say, is there any other? Ithink you've got to abandon the disclaimerat the end.HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Now if other questions are raised I'll beglad to answer them. See what I mean? Sure.Now, that way I, I don't see how's it's, uh,and if they raise the other questions, then you answer them.HALDEMAN:I would be concerned about putting out astatement that purported to be complete because I don't -I'm not sure if -...PRESIDENT:Never, never, never. You never do that foranother reason is that, then, from then onthey'd say (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible)PRESIDENT: No, you could say on the matters of aspecifically raised (unintelligible) say this -- Any further questions? (Unintelligible)(Voices fade)