TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF AMEETING AMONG THE PRESIDENT, JOHNDEAN, AND H.R. HALDEMAN IN THE OVALOFFICE, ON MARCH 21, 1973, FROM10:12 TO 11:55 AMPRESIDENT:John, sit down, sit down.DEAN:Good morning. PRESIDENT:Well, what is the Dean summary of the dayabout?DEAN:John caught me on the way out and asked meabout why Gray was holding back on information, if that was under instructionsfrom us. And it, uh, it was and it wasn't.Uh, it was instructions proposed by the Attorney General, consistent with your press conference statement that no further rawdata was to be turned over to the...PRESIDENT:Full committee. DEAN:...full committee.PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:And that was the extent of it. And Gray,himself, is the one who reached the conclusion that no more information beturned over; he'd turned over enough. Uh,so this is again Pat Gray making decisions on his own as to how to handle his hearings.He has been totally unwilling all along totake any guidance, any instruction. We don't know what he is going to do. He is not going to talk about it. He won't reviewit, uh, and I don't think...PRESIDENT:Right.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.2DEAN:...he does it to harm you in any way, sir.PRESIDENT:He's just quite stubborn and -- he's quitestubborn; also he isn't very smart. Youknow he and I--DEAN:He's bullheaded. PRESIDENT:He's smart in his own way, but...DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:...but he's got that typical, "Well, by God,this is right and they're not going to doit."DEAN:That's why he thinks he'll be confirmed,because he thinks he's being, he's being his own man He's being forthright, honest. He'sfeels he has turned over too much and soit's a conscious decision that he is harming the Bureau by doing this and so he's notgoing to--PRESIDENT:(Sighs) I hope to God that we can get off(unintelligible) though today, this is because the White House told him to do thisand that other thing. And also, I toldEhrlichman, I don't see why our little boys can't make something out of the fact that,God darn it, this is the, this is the, theonly responsible decision you could possibly make. The FBI cannot turn over raw files. Has anybody made that point? I've tried...MARCH 21, 1973 -FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.3DEAN:Sam Ervin has made that point himself.PRESIDENT:Did he?DEAN:Uh, in fact, in reading the transcript ofGray's hearings, Ervin tried to hold Gray back from doing what he was doing at the time he did it. Uh, I thought it was veryunwise. I don't think that anyone iscriticizing...PRESIDENT:Well, let's say --DEAN:... your position on it.PRESIDENT:Let's make the point, let's make the pointthat the raw files cannot be turned over. Well, I think that point should be made.DEAN:That, that--PRESIDENT:(Background noises) We are standing for therights of innocent individuals. TheAmerican Civil Liberty Union is against it.We're against it. (Unintelligible) tradition, and it will continue to be the tradition that all files are -- I'd like toturn them (Unintelligible) let them see whatis in one.DEAN:How damaging--PRESIDENT:Any further word on, on Sullivan? Is hestill--MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.4DEAN:Yeah, he's, he's going to be over to see metoday, this morning, hopefully, some-time.Uh--PRESIDENT:As soon as you get that, I'll be availableto talk to you this afternoon.DEAN:All right, sir.PRESIDENT:I'll be busy until about one o'clock; afterthat we can contact. Anytime you're through I would like to see whatever thing he has.Well, he' 5 got something, but I'd like-tojust see what it is.DEAN:Uh, the reason I thought we ought to talkthis morning is because in, in ourconversations, uh, uh, I have, I have theimpression that you don't know everything I knowPRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:...and it makes it very difficult for you tomake judgments that, uh, that only you can make...PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:... on some of these things and I thoughtthat--PRESIDENT:You've got, in other words, I've got to knowwhy you feel that, uh, that something...DEAN:Well, let me... PRESIDENT:...that, that we shouldn't unravelsomething.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.5DEAN:...let me give you my overall first.PRESIDENT:In other words, you, your judgment as towhere it stands, and where we go now---DEAN:I think, I think that, uh, there's no doubtabout the seriousness of the problem we're, we've got. We have a cancer--within, closeto the Presidency, that's growing. It'sgrowing daily. It's compounding, it grows geometrically now because it compoundsitself. Uh, that'll be clear as I explainyou know, some of the details, uh, of why it is, and it basically is because (1) we're being blackmailed; (2) uh, people are goingto start perjuring themself very quicklythat have not had to perjure themselves to protect other people and the like. And thatis just--and there is no assurance--PRESIDENT:That it won't bust. DEAN:That, that won't bust. PRESIDENT:True.DEAN:So, let me give you the sort of basic facts'talking first about the Watergate; and then about Segretti; and then about some of theperipheral items that, uh, have come up.First of all, on, on the Watergate: How did it all start, where did it start? It started with an instruction to me from BobHaldeman to see if we couldn't set up aperfectly legitimate campaign intelligence operation over at the Re-election Committee.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.6PRESIDENT:Hmm.DEAN:Not being in this business, I turned tosomebody who had been in this business, JackCaulfield, who is, I don't know if you remember Jack or not. He was your original bodyguard beforePRES IDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...they had... PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...candidate, candidate...PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:...protection, an old New York Citypoliceman.PRESIDENT:Right, I know, I know him.DEAN:Uh, Jack had worked for John and then wastransferred to my office. I said, "Jack,come up with a plan that, you know, is anormal infiltration, I mean, you know, buying informa- tion from secretaries and all that sort of thing." He did, he puttogether a plan. It was kicked around, and,uh, I went to Ehrlichman with it. I went to Mitchell with it, and the consensus was thatCaulfield wasn't the man to do this. Uh, inretrospect, that might have been a bad call, 'cause he is an incredibly cautious person and, and wouldn't have put the situation towhere it is today.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.7PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:All right, after rejecting that, they said,"We still need something," so I was told tolook around for somebody that could go over to 1701 and do this. And that's when I came up with Gordon Liddy, who-- they needed alawyer. Gordon had an intelligence back-ground from his FBI service. I was aware of the fact that he had done some extremelysensitive things for the White House whilehe'd been at the White House, and he had apparently done them well. Uh, going out into Ellsberg's doctor's office...PRESIDENT:Oh, yeah.DEAN:... and things like this. He'd worked withleaks. He'd, you know, tracked these thingsdown. Uh, and (coughs) so the report that Igot from Krogh was that he was a hell of a good man and, and not only that, a good lawyer, uh, and could set up a properoperation. So we talked to Liddy. Liddywas interested in doing it. Took, uh, Liddy over to meet Mitchell. Mitchell thoughthighly of him because, apparently, Mitchellwas partially involved in his ev--coming to the White House to work for, for Krogh. Uh, Liddy had been at Treasury before that.Then Liddy was told to put together hisplan, you know, how he would run an intelligence operation. And this was after he was hired over there at the, uh, theCommittee. Magruder called me in Januaryand said, "I'd like to have you come over and see Liddy's plan."MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.8PRESIDENT:January of '72?DEAN:January of '72. (Background noises) Like,"You come over to Mitchell's office and sitin on a meeting where Liddy is going to lay his plan out." I said, "Well, I don't really know as I'm the man, but if you want methere I'll be happy to." (Clears throat) So,I came over and Liddy laid out a million dollar plan that was the most incrediblething I have ever laid my eyes on. All incodes, and involved black bag operations, kidnapping, providing prostitutes, uh, to weaken the opposition, bugging, uh, muggingteams. It was just an incredible thing.(Clears throat)PRESIDENT:But, uh...DEAN:And--PRESIDENT:...that was, that was not, uh... DEAN:No. PRESIDENT:...discussed with...DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:...other persons. DEAN:No, not at all. And--PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)DEAN:Uh, Mitchell, Mitchell just virtually satthere puffing and laughing. I could tell 'cause after he--after Liddy left the officeMARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.9I said, "That's the most incredible thingI've ever seen." He said, " I agree." And sothen he was told to go back to the draw-ingboards and come up with something realistic. So there was a second meeting. Uh, they asked me to come over to that. I came intothe tail end of the meeting. I wasn't therefor the first part. I don't know how long the meeting lasted. Uh, at this point, theywere discussing again bugging, kidnappingand the like. And at this point I said, right in front of everybody, very clearly, I said, "These are not the sort of things (1)that are ever to be discussed in the officeof the Attorney General of the United States"--where he still was--"and I ampersonally incensed." I was trying to getMitchell off the hook, uh, 'cause--PRESIDENT:I know. DEAN:He's a, he's a nice person, doesn't like tosay no under--when people he's going to haveto work with.PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:So, I let, I let it be known. I said, "Youall pack that stuff up and get it the hell out of here 'cause we just, you just can't talk this way in this office and youshouldn't, you shouldn't, you should re-examine your whole thinking." Came back--PRESIDENT:Who else was present? Be-, besides you--MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.10DEAN:It was Magruder, Magruder--PRESIDENT:Magruder.DEAN:Uh, Mitchell, Liddy and myself. I came backright after the meeting and told Bob, I said, "Bob, we've got a growing disaster on our hands if they're thinking this way.' andI said, "The Unite House has got to stay outof this and I, frankly, am not going to be involved in it." He said, "I agree John."And, I thought, at that point the thing wasturned off. That's the last I heard of it, when I thought it was turned off, because it was an absurd proposal.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:Liddy-I did have dealings with himafterwards. We never talked about it. Nowthat would be hard to believe for somepeople, but, uh, we never did. Just the fact of the matter.PRESIDENT:Well, you were talking about other things.DEAN:Other things. We had so many other things.PRESIDENT:He had some legal problems at one time. DEAN:Now (coughs)--PRESIDENT:But you were his advisor, and I, Iunderstand how you could have some, uh, what cam--what are they campaign laws--I knew that was you, you have--Haldeman told meyou, that you were heading all of that upfor us. Go ahead.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.11DEAN:Now. (Clears Throat). So, Liddy went backafter that and it was over, over at, uh,1701, the Committee, and I, this is where Icome into having put the pieces together after the fact as to what I can put together what happened. Liddy sat over there andtried to come up with another plan that hecould sell. (1) They were talking, saying to him he was asking for too much money, andI don't think they were discounting the, theillegal points at this, after--you know. Jeb is not a lawyer and he didn't know whether this was the way the game was playedor not, and what it was all about. Theycame up with, apparently, another plan, uh, but they couldn't get it approved by anybodyover there. So, Liddy and Hunt apparentlycame to see Chuck Colson, and Chuck Colson picked up the telephone and called Magruder and said, "You all either fish or cut bait.Uh, this is absurd to have these guys overthere and not using them, and if you're not going to use them, I may use them." Thingsof this nature.PRESIDENT:When was this? DEAN:This was apparently in February of '72. PRESIDENT:That could be. Colson know what they weretalking about?DEAN:I can only assume, because of his closerelation-ship with...PRESIDENT:Hunt.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A M.12DEAN:...Hunt, he had a damn good idea of whatthey were talking about, a damn good idea.He would probably deny it, deny it today andprobably get away with denying it. But I, uh, I still--PRESIDENT:Unless Hunt--DEAN:Unless Hunt, uh, blows on him--PRESIDENT:But then Hunt isn't enough. I takes twodoesn't it?DEAN:Probably. Probably. But Liddy was therealso and if, if Liddy were to blow--PRESIDENT:Then you've got a problem--I was thinking(unintelligible}the criminal liability goes.DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Okay. DEAN:I'll go back over that, and tell (noise) youwhere I think the, the soft spots are.PRESIDENT:Colson then, then Colson then, do you thinkwas the, uh, was the person who...DEAN:I think he...PRESIDENT:...pushed?MARCH 21 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.13DEAN:I think he helped to get the push, get thething off the dime. Now something elseoccurred, though --PRESIDENT:Did Colson--did he talk to anybody here? DEAN:No. I think this was an independent ... PRESIDENT:Did he talk to Haldeman?DEAN:No. I don't think so. Now, but here's theother thing, where the next thing comes in the chain: I think that Bob was assumingthat they had something that was proper overthere, some intelligence gathering operation that Liddy was operating. And through Strachan, uh, who was his tickler, uh, hestarted pushing themPRESIDENT:(Sighs) yeah. DEAN:...to get something, to get some informationand they took that as a signal--Magrudertook that as a signal to probably go to Mitchell and say, "They're pushing us like crazy for this from the White House." And soMitchell probably puffed on his pipe andsaid, "Go ahead." And never really reflected on what it was all about. So, they had someplan that obviously had, I gather, differenttargets they were going to go after. They were going to infiltrate, and bug, and do all this sort of thing to a lot of thesetargets. This is knowledge I have after thefact.(coughs) And,MARCH 21 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.14apparently, they, uh, they, they had, theyhad after they had initially broken in andbugged the Democratic National Committeethey were getting information. The information was coming over here to Strachan. Some of it was given to Haldeman.Uh, there is no doubt about it. Uh--PRESIDENT:Did he know what it was coming from? DEAN:I don't really know if he was, sir.PRESIDENT:Not necessarily.DEAN:Not necessarily. That -- not necessarily.Uh--PRESIDENT:Strachan knew what it was from.DEAN:Strachan knew what it was from. No doubtabout it, and whether Strachan--I've never wanted to press these people on these pointsbecause it...PRESIDENT: Yeah. DEAN:...it hurts them to, to give up that nextinch. So I had to piece things together.All right, so, Strachan was aware ofreceiving information, reporting to Bob. At one point Bob even gave instructions tochange their capabilities from Muskie toMcGovern, and had passed this back through Strachan to Magruder and, and apparently to Liddy, and Liddy was starting to makearrangements to go in and bug the uh, uh,McGovern operation. They had done prelim- ...MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.15PRESIDENT:They had never bugged Muskie, though, didthey?DEAN:No, they hadn't but they had a, they had,uh, they'd...PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible). DEAN:...infiltrated it by a, a, they had...PRESIDENT:A secretary.DEAN:...a secretary and a chauffeur. Nothingillegal about that.PRESIDENT:I suppose you're--DEAN:Now, so the information was coming over hereand then, uh, I finally, after --the next point in time where I became aware ofanything was on June 17th, when I got wordthat there had been this break-in at the Democratic National Committee and somebodyfrom the Committee had been caught, uh, fromour Committee had been caught in the DNC. And I said, "Oh, my God, that, I can only", you know, if, instantly putting the piecestogether--(Coughs)PRESIDENT:You knew what it was. DEAN:I knew what it was. So I called Liddy, uh,on that Monday morning, and I said, "Gordon"- I said, "first, I want to know if anybody- in the White House was involved in this." And he said, "No." And they weren't. Isaid,MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.16"Well, I want to know how in God's name-thishappened." And he said, "Well, I was pushedwithout mercy by Magruder to get in there,get more information--that the information, it was not satisfactory. Magruder said, 'The White House is not happy with whatwe're getting."'PRESIDENT:The White House? DEAN:The White House. Yeah, Uh--PRESIDENT:Who do you think was pushing him?DEAN:Well, I think it was probably Strachanthinking that Bob wanted things,(cough) and because because I have seen that happen onother occasions where things have been saidto be Of very prime importance when they really weren't.PRESIDENT:Why (unintelligible) I wonder? I'm justtry-ing to think as to why then. We'd just finished the Moscow trip. I mean, we were--DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:The Democrats had just nominated Mc G-, McGovern. I mean, for Christ's sakes, I mean, what the hell were we--I mean, I can seedoing it earlier but I mean, now let me say,I can see the pressure, but I don't see why all the pressure would have been one then.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.17DEAN:I don't know, other than the fact that, uh,they might have been looking for informationaboutPRESIDENT:The convention. DEAN:...the conventions. PRESIDENT:Well, that's right.DEAN:Because, I understand, also after the fact,that there was a plan to bug Larry O'Brien's suite down in Florida.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:Uh, so, uh, Liddy told me, that uh, youknow, this is what had happened and, and this is why it had happened.PRESIDENT:Liddy told you he was planning--where'd youlearn there was such a plan--from whom?DEAN:Beg your pardon.PRESIDENT:Where did you learn of the plans to bugLarry O'Brien's suite?DEAN:From Magruder, after the, long after thefact.PRESIDENT:Oh, Magruder, he knows.DEAN:Yeah. Magruder is totally knowledgeable onthe whole thing.PRESIDENT:Yeah.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.18DEAN:All right, now, we've gone through thetrial. We've--I don't know if Mitchell hasperjured himself in the Grand Jury or not.I've never--PRESIDENT:Who? DEAN:Mitchell. I don't know how much knowledgehe actually had. I know that Magruder hasperjured himself in the Grand Jury. I know that Porter has perjured himself, uh, in theGrand Jury.PRESIDENT:Porter (Unintelligible). DEAN:He's one of Magruder's deputies. PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:Uh, that they set up this scenario whichthey ran by me. They said, "How about this?" I said, "Well, I don't knot. I, youknow, if, if this is that you're going tohang on, fine." Uh, that they--PRESIDENT:What did they say before the Grand Jury? DEAN:They said, they said, as they said beforethe trial and the Grand Jury, that, that,uh, Liddy had come over as, as a counsel and we knell he had these capacities to, youknoll, to do legitimate intelligence. Wehad no idea what he was doing. He was given an authorization of 250,000 dollars..PRESIDENT:Right.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.19DEAN:...to collect information, because oursurrogates were out on the road. They hadno protection. We had information thatthere were going to be demonstrations against them, that, uh, uh, we had to have a plan to get information as to whatliabilities they were going to be confrontedwith...PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:...and Liddy was charged with doing this.We had no knowledge that he was going to bug the ARC. Uh--PRESIDENT:Well, the point is, that's untrue.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Magruder did know that--- DEAN:Magruder was specifically instructed him togo back in the DNC.PRESIDENT:He did? DEAN:Yes. PRESIDENT:You know that? Yeah, I see. Okay.DEAN: Uh, (pause)- I honestly believe that nooseover here knew that. I know, uh, as God is my maker, I had no knowledge that they weregoing to do this.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.20PRESIDENT:Bob didn't either (unintelligible).DEAN:Oh, but, you know, Unintelligible)PRESIDENT:(unintelligible) Bob, Bob-- he wouldn't--DEAN:Bob I don't believe specifically knew theywere going in there.PRESIDENT:I don't think so.DEAN:I don't think he did. I think he knew therewas a capacity to do this, but he wouldn't, wasn't giving it specific direction.PRESIDENT:Strachan, did he know?DEAN:I think Strachan did know. PRESIDENT:They were going back into the DNC? Huntnever entered DNC.DEAN:All right, so--uh, those people are introuble as a result of the Grand Jury and the trial. Mitchell, of course, was nevercalled during the trial. Now --PRESIDENT:Mitchell has given a sworn statement? DEAN:Yes, sir. PRESIDENT:To the Bureau?DEAN:To the Grand Jury --MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.21PRESIDENT:Did he go before the Grand Jury?DEAN:He had, we had a, an arrangement whereby hewent down to, with several of the -- becauseit was, you know, the heat of this thing and the implications on the election' we made an arrangement where they could quietly go intothe Department of Justice and have one ofThe Assistant U.S. Attorneys come over and take their testimony and then read it beforethe Grand Jury. Uh--PRESIDENT:That was (unintelligible). DEAN:Although I--that's right. Mitchell \la5actually called before the Grand Jury. TileGrand Jury would not settle for less. TheJurors wanted him.PRESIDENT:And he went.DEAN:And he went.PRESIDENT:Good. DEAN:Uh, I don't know what he said. Uh, so I'venever seen a transcript of the Grand Jury.Now (sighs) what, what has happened post-June 17? Well, it was, I was under pretty clear instructions (laughs) not to reallyinvestigate this, that this was somethingthat just could have been disastrous on the election if it had--all hell had broken loose, and I worked on a theory ofcontainment...MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 10:55 A.M.22PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:...to try to hold it right where it was.PRESIDENT:RightDEAN:There's no doubt, I, I, uh, that, uh, I wastotally aware what the Bureau was doing at all times. I was totally aware of what theGrand Jury was doing.PRESIDENT:You mean-- DEAN:I knew what witnesses were going to becalled. I knew what they were going to beasked, and I had to. There just--PRESIDENT:Why did Petersen play the, play the game sostraight with us?DEAN:Because Petersen is a soldier. He played--he kept me informed. He told me when we had problems, where we had problems, and thelike Uh, he believes in, in, in you. Hebelieves in this Administration. This Administration has made him. Uh, I don't thinly he's done anything improper, but hedid make sure the investigation was narroweddozen to the very, very...PRESIDENT:Plight.DEAN: ...fine...PRESIDENT:Right.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.23DEAN:...criminal things, which was a break forus. There's no doubt about it.PRESIDENT:He honestly feels that he did an adequatejob?DEAN:He, uh, they ran that investigation out tothe fullest extent they could follow a lead(coughs) and that was it.PRESIDENT:But the point is, where I suppose he couldbe criticized for not-doing an adequate jobis why didn't he call Haldeman? Thy didn'the get a statement from Colson? Or they did get Colson?DEAN:That's right. But see, the thing is, isbased on their FBI interviews, there was noreason to follow up. There were no leads there. Colson said, "I have no knowledge ofthis" to the FBI. Uh, Strachan said, "Ihave no knowledge of--" you know. They didn't ask Strachan any Watergate questions. They asked him about Segretti. Uh, theysaid, "What's your connection with Liddy?"and he just said, "Well, I, you know I just, met him over there," and they never reallypressed him. They didn't you know, they--look, Strachan appeared, uh, as a result of some coaching, he could be the dumbest paper pusher in the bowels of the, the WhiteHouse. All right, now, post-June 17th,these guys immediately--it is very, very (laughs) interesting --Liddy, for example, the FridayMARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.24before--uh, on I guess it was the, uh on the15th, uh, 16th, uh, of, uh, June--had beenin Henry Petersen's office with anothermember of my staff on campaign compliance (laughs) problems, uh, joking. After the incident, he went, he ran, uh, Kleindienstdoom at Burning Tree Country Club and told(laughs) him that "You've got to get my men out of jail," which was kind of a--Kleindienst said, "Now, you get the hell outof here, kid, uh, uh, whatever you've got to say, just say to somebody else. Don'tbother me," and-- but this has never comeup.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Uh, Liddy said, said that, you know -- theyall got counsel instantly and said that, youknow' "she'll, we'll ride this thing out." All right, then they started waking demands; We've got to have attorneys' fees. Uh, wedon&#8482;t have any money ourselves, and if-youare asking us to take this through the election." All right, so arrangements weremade through Mitchell, uh, initiating it, indiscussions that--I was present-that these guys had to be taken care of. Their attorneys' fees had to be done. Kalmbachalas brought in. Uh, Kalmbach raised somecash. Uh, they were, uh, you know--PRESIDENT:They put that under the cover of a CubanCommittee or (unintelligible).MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.25DEAN:Yeah, they, they had a Cuban Committee andthey had--some of it was given to Hunt'slawyer, who in turn passed it out. This,you know, when Hunt&#8482;s wife was flying to Chicago with ten thousand, she was actually, I understand after the fact now, was goingto pass that money to, uh, one of theCubans, to meet him in Chicago and pass it to somebody there.PRESIDENT:Why didn't she (unintelligible) maybe--well,whether it's maybe too late to-do anything about it, but I would certainly keep that, (laughs) that cover for whatever it's worth.DEAN:I'll...PRESIDENT:Keep the Committee. DEANAf-, after, well, that, that; that's themost troublesome post-thing, uh, because (1)Bob is involved in that; John is involved in that; I'm involved in that; Mitchell is involved in that. And that's an obstructionof justice.PRESIDENT:In other words the fact that uh, that you'reyou're, you're taking care Of the witnesses.DEAN:That's right, uh--PRESIDENT:How was Bob involved? DEAN:Well, th-, they ran out of money over there.Bob had three hundred and fifty thousanddollars in a safe over here that was reallyset aside for polling purposes. ills and there was no other source of money, so they came over here and said, "You all've got togive us some money."MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.26PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:I had to go to Bob and say, "Bob, you know,you've got to have some--they need somemoney over there." He said "What for?" And so I had to tell him what it was for 'cause he wasn't about to just send money overthere willy-nilly. And, uh, Jolly wasinvolved in those discussions, and we decided, you know, that, you know, thatthere was no price too high to pay to letthis thing blow up in front of the election.PRESIDENT:I think you - should handle that one prettyfast.DEAN:Oh, I think--PRESIDENT:That issue, I mean. DEAN:I think we can.PRESIDENT:So that the three-fifty went back ov-, overhereDEAN:That's alright. I think we can too. PRESIDENT:Who else is?DEAN:But, now, here, here's what's happeningright now.PRESIDENT:Yeah.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.27DEAN:What sort of brings matters to the--this is(1) this-is going to be continual black-mail operation by Hunt and Liddy and theCubans. No doubt about it. And McCord...PRESIDENT:Yeah . DEAN:who is, who is another one involved. McCordhas asked for nothing. Uh, McCord did askto meet with somebody, and it was Jack Caulfield, who is his old friend, who'dgotten him hired over the-ret And, when,when, when Caulfield had him hired, he was a perfectly legitimate security man. And he wanted to know, well, you know, (coughs) hewanted to talk about commutation, and thingslike that. And as you know Colson has talked to, indirectly to Hunt aboutcommutation. (Clears throat). All thesethings are bad, in, in, in that they are problems, they are promises, they are commitments. They are the very sort ofthing that the Senate is going to be lookingmost for. I don't think they can find them, frankly.PRESIDENT:Pretty hard.DEAN:Pretty hard. Damn hard. It's all cash.Uh--PRESIDENT:Lowell, I mean, pretty hard as far as thewitnesses are concerned.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.28DEAN:That's right. Now, The blackmail iscontinuing. Hunt called one of the lawyersfrom the Re-election Committee on lastFriday to meet with him on--over the weekend. The guy came in to me, to see me to get a message directly from Hunt to me,for the first time.PRESIDENT:Is Hunt out on bail? DEAN:Pardon?PRESIDENT:Is Hunt on bail?DEAN:Hunt is on bail. Correct. Uh, Hunt now isdemanding another seventy-to thousand dollars for his own personal expenses;another fifty thousand dollars to pay hisattorneys' fees; a hundred and twenty some thousand dollars. Wants it, wanted it bythe close of business yesterday. 'Cause hesays, "I'm going to be sentenced on Friday, and I've got to be able to get my financial affairs in order." I told this fellowO'Brien, "You came--all right, you came tothe wrong man, fellow. I'm not involved in the money. Uh, I don't know a thing aboutit, can't help you." Said, "You betterscramble around elsewhere." Now, O'Brien is, O'Brien. is, is a ball player. He's been, he carried tremendous water for us. Uh--PRESIDENT:He isn't Hunt's lawyer, is he?DEAN:No, he is, he is our-lawyer at the Re-election Committee.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.29PRESIDENT:I see, good.DEAN:So he's safe. There's no problem there.But it raises the whole question of Hunt nowhas made a direct threat against Ehrlichman, as a result of this. This is his blackmail. He says, "I will bring John Ehrlichman downto his knees and put him in jail. Uh, Ihave done enough seamy things for he and Krogh, uh, that they'll never survive it."PRESIDENT:What's that, on Ellsberg? -DEAN:Ellsberg, and apparently some other things.I don't know the full extent of it. Uh--PRESIDENT:I don't know about anything else.DEAN:I don't know either, and I (laughs) hate tolearn some of these things. So that's, that 's that situation. Now, we're at the softpoints. How many people know about this?Hell, uh, well, let me go one step further in this, this whole thing. The Cubans that were used in the Watergate were also thesame Cubans that Hunt and Liddy used forthis California Ellsberg thing, for the break-in out there.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:So they're, they're aware of that. How hightheir knowledge is, is something else. Huntand Liddy, of course, are totally aware of,of, of it, and the fact that, uh, it wasrift out of the White House.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.30PRESIDENT:I don't know what the hell we did that for.DEAN:I don't either.PRESIDENT:What in the name of God did that--DEAN:Mr. President, there have been a couple ofthings around here that I have gotten wind of. Uh, there was at one time a desire todo a second-story job on the BrookingsInstitute where they had the Pentagon Papers. Now I flew to California because Iwas told that John had instructed it and hesaid, "I really hadn't. It's- amisimpression, that for Christ's sake, turn it off." And I did. I came back and turnedit off. Because, you know the, when you,you know, if the risk is minimal and the, and the gain is fantastic, it's somethingelse. But with a low risk and uh, no gain,uh, hey, it's just, uh, it's not worth it. Well--who knows about this all now? All right, you've got (clears throat) theCubans' lawyer's' a man by the name ofRothblatt, who is a no-good, publicity- seeking, son-of-a-bitch, to be very frankabout it. He has had to be turned down andtuned off. He was canned by his own peoplecause they didn't trust him. They were trying to run a different route than hewanted to run. He didn't want them to pleadguilty. He wants to represent them beforethe Senate. So, F. Lee Bailey, who was the partner of one of the, one of the menrepresenting McCord; uh, got in and, andcooled Rothblatt down. So, F. Lee B-, Bailey's got knowledge. Uh, Hunt's lawyer,a man by the name of Bittman, who's anexcellent criminal lawyer from the Democratic era of Bobby Kennedy, he's got knowledge. Uh--MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.31PRESIDENT:Do you think, do you think, that he's gotsome How much?DEAN:Well, everybody-not only, all the, all thedirect knowledge that Hunt and Liddy have, as well as all the hearsay they have.PRESIDENT:I (unintelligible).DEAR:Uh, you've got the trio lawyers over at theRe-election Committee who did an investigation to find out the facts.Slowly, they got the whole picture.They're, uh, they're solid, but they're--PRESIDENT:But they know.DEAN:But they know. Uh, you've got, then, anawful lot of--all the principals involvedknow. Uh, Hunt--some people's wives know.PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:Uh, there's no doubt about that. Mrs. Huntwas the savviest woman in the world. She had the whole picture together.PRESIDENT:Did she?DEAN:Yeah, it, uh--apparently, she was the pillarof strength in that family before the death, and, uh--MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.32PRESIDENT:Great sadness. The basis, as Smatter offact (clears throat) there was somediscussion (unintelligible) uh, Hunt'sproblems after his wife died and I said, of course, commutation could be considered on the basis of his wife, and that is the onlydiscussion I ever had in that light.DEAN:Right. Uh, so that's, that's it. That'sthe, the extent of the knowledge. Now,where, where are the soft spots on this?Well, first of all, there's the, there's the problem of the continued blackmailPRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:...which will not only go on now, it'll goonwhen these people are in prison, and it will compound the obstruction of justicesituation. It'll cost money. It'sdangerous. Nobody, nothing--people around here are not pros at this sort of thing. This is the sort of thing Mafia people cando: washing money, getting clean money, andthings like that, uh--we're--we just don't know about those (noise) things, becausewe're-not used to, you know--we are notcriminals and not used to dealing in that business. It's, uh, it's, uh--PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:It's tough thing to know how to do.PRESIDENT:Maybe we can't even do that.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.33DEAN:That's right. It's a real problem as towhether we could even do it. Plus there's areal problem in raising money. Uh, Mitchellhas been working on raising some money. Uh, feeling he's got, you know, he's got one, he's one of the ones with the most to lose.Uh, but there's no denying the fact that theWhite House, and uh, Ehrlichman, Haldeman, Dean are involved in some of the early moneydecisions.PRESIDENT:How much money do you need? DEAN:I would say these people are going to cost,uh, a million dollars over the next, uh, -two years. (Pause)PRESIDENT:We could get that. DEAN:Uh, huh.PRESIDENT:You, on the money, if you need the money, Imean, uh' you could get the money. Let's say--DEAN:Well, I think that we're going--PRESIDENT:What I mean is, you could, you could get amillion dollars. And you could get it in cash. I, I know where it could be gotten.DEAN:Uh, huh.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.34PRESIDENT:I mean it's not easy, but it could be acne.But, uh, the question is who the hell wouldhandle it?DEAN:That's right, uh-- PRESIDENT:Any ideas on that? DEAN:Well, I would think that would be somethingthat Mitchell ought to be charged with.PRESIDENT:I would think so, too.DEAN:And get some, get some pros to help him.PRESIDENT:Let me say, there shouldn't be a lot ofpeople running around getting money. We should set up a little--DEAN:Well, he's got one person doing it who I'mnot sure is--PRESIDENT:Who is that? DEAN:He's got Fred LaRue, uh, doing it. Now Fredstarted out going cut trying to...PRESIDENT:No. DEAN:...solicit money from all kinds of people.Now, I learned about that, and I said, "MyGod"...PRESIDENT:No. DEAN:..."It's just awful. Don't do it."PRESIDENT:Yeah.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.35DEAN:Uh, people are going to ask what the moneyis for. He's working-- apparently he talkedto Tom Pappas.PRESIDENT:I know.(Noise)DEAN:And Pappas has, uh, agreed to come up wit1 asizeable amount, I gather, from,from...(Noise)PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...Mitchell.PRESIDENT:Yeah, well, what do you need, then? Youneed, uh, you don't need a million right away, but you need a million. Is thatright?DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:You need a million in cash, don't you? Ifyou want to put that through, would you putthat through, uh--this is thinking out loud here for a moment--would you put that through the Cuban Committee?DEAN:Umm, no,PRESIDENT:Or would you just do this through a(unintelligible) that it's going to be, uh,well, it's cash money, and so forth. How,if that ever comes out, are you going to handle it? Is the Cuban Committee an obstruction of justice, if they want tohelp?MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.36DEAN:Well, they've got a pr-, they've gotpriests, and they--PRESIDENT:Would you like to put, I mean, would that,would that give a little bit of a cover, for example?DEAN:That would give some for the Cubans andpossibly Hunt.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Uh, then you've got Liddy and--McCord isnot, not accepting any money. So he's, heis not a bought man right now. (Pause)PRESIDENT:Okay. DEAN:All right. Let, let me, uhPRESIDENT:Go ahead.DEAN:...continue a little bit here now. The, uh,I, when I say this is a a growing cancer,uh, I say it for reasons like this. BudKrogh in his testimony before the Grand Jury, was forced to perjure himself. Uh, he is haunted by it. Uh, Bud said, "I haven'thad a pleasant day on the job."PRESIDENT:Huh, said what?MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.37DEAN:He said, "I have not had a pleasant day onmy job." Uh, he's talked, apparently, hesaid to me, "I told my wife all about this,"he said. "The, uh, the curtain may ring down one of these days, and' uh, I may have to face the music, which I'm perfectlywilling to do." Uh--PRESIDENT:What did he perjure himself on, John? DEAN:His, did, uh, did he know the Cubans? Hedid. Uh--PRESIDENT:He said he didn't? DEAN:That's right. They didn't press him hard,or that he--PRESIDENT:He might be able to--I'm just trying tothink. Perjury is an awful hard rap to prove. He could say that I (pause) hem,well, go-ahead.DEAN:(Coughs) Well, so that's, that's the first,that's one perjury. Now, Mitchell and, and, uh, Magruder are potential perjuries. Thereis always the possibility of any one ofthese individuals blowing. Hunt, Liddy. Liddy's in jail right now; he's serving his--trying to get good time right now. I thinkLiddy is probably, in his, in his own bizarre way, the strongest of all of them. Uh, so there's, there is that possibility.MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.38PRESIDENT:Well, your, your major, your major guy keepunder control is Hunt.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:I think. Because he knows... DEAN:He knows so much. PRESIDENT:...about a lot of other things.DEAN:He knows so much. Right. Uh, he could sinkChuck Colson. Apparently, apparently, he is quite distressed with Colson. He thinksColson has abandoned him. Uh, Colson was tomeet with him when he was out there, after, now he had left the White House. He met with him through his lawyer. Hunt raisedthe question he wanted money. Colson'slawyer told him that Colson wasn't doing anything smith money, and Hunt took offensewith that immediately, that, uh, uh, thatColson had abandoned him. Uh--PRESIDENT:Don't you, just looking at the immediateproblem, don't you have to have--handleHunt's financial situationDEAN:I, I think that's-- PRESIDENT:...damn soon?DEAN:That is, uh, I talked to Mitchell about thatlast night--MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.39PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)DEAN:And, and, uh, I told--PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) may--after all, You've gotto keep the cap on the bottle that much...DEAN:That's right; that's right. PRESIDENT:...in order to have any options.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Either that or let it all blow right now. DEAN:Well, that, you know' that's the, that's thequestion. Uh--PRESIDENT:Now, go ahead. The others. You've gotHunt... -DEAN:All right, now we've got--PRESIDENT:...you've got Krogh, and you've got--DEAN:Now we've got Kalmbach (coughs). PRESIDENT:Yeah, that's a tough one.DEAN:Kalmbach received...PRESIDENT:(unintelligible)MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.40DEAN:...at the close of the, of the, uh, '68campaign, in January of '69, he got amillion seven dollars, uh, a million sevenhundred thousand dollars to be custodian for. That cane down from New York. It was placed in safe deposit boxes here. Uh, someother people were on the boxes, andultimately, the money was taken out to California. All right, there is knowledgeof the fact that he did start with a millionseven. Several people know this. Now, since '69, he's spent a good deal of this money and, and, uh, accounting for it isgoing to be very difficult for Herb. Forexample, he's spent--oh-close to five hundred thousand dollars on private polling.Now that just opens up a whole new thing.It's not illegal, but, uh, it's more of the same sort of thing.PRESIDENT:I don't think that poses a hell of aproblem, does it?DEAN:No, I don't think so. Uh-- PRESIDENT:Practically everybody does polling.DEAN:That's right, uh, it's not, there's nothingcriminal about it. It was private polls.: It was...PRES IDEAL: Nothing--DEAN:...uh, proper money.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.41PRESIDENT:The law didn't, the law didn't(unintelligible)...DEAN:(Coughs )PRESIDENT:... polled all through the years. DEAN:That&#8482;s right-. Uh, he sent four hundredthousand dollars, as he's described to me,somewhere in the South or another candidate.I assume this was four hundred, uh, that went...PRESIDENT:Wallace.DEAN:...to Wallace. Right. Uh; he hasmaintained, uh, a, a man, who I only I know by the name of "Tony", who is the fellow]who did the, the Chappaquidick study and...PRESIDENT:I heard about that. DEAN:...other, other odd jobs like that. Nothing illegal...PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...uh, but closer. Uh, I don't know ofanything that Herb has done that is illegal, other than the fact that he doesn't want toblow the whistle on a lot of people, and mayfind himself in a perjury situation.PRESIDENT:Well, if he, uh, he could--because he willbe asked about that money.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.42DEAN:He will. What'll happen is, when they callhim up there--and he of course has noimmunity, uh, they'll say, "How did youhappen--how did you pay Mr. Segretti?" "Well, I had cash on hand" "Well, how much cash did you have on hand?"PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:Uh, where does he go from there? "Where didyou get the cash?"PRESIDENT:Uh, huh.DEAN:A full series of questions. His bankrecords indicate he had cash on hand, because some of these were set up in trusteeaccounts.PRESIDENT:How would you handle him, then, John? Forexample, would you just have him put thewhole thing out?DEAN:(Draws breath) PRESIDENT:I don't think so. I mean I don't mind thefive hundred thousand dollars and I don'tmind the four hundred thousand dollars...DEAN:No, that-- PRESIDENT:...for activities (unintelligible).DEAN:That, that, uh, that doesn't bother meeither. There's--as I say, Herb's problemsare...MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.43PRESIDENT:There's a surplus--DEAN:...politically embarrassing, but not as, notcriminal.PRESIDENT:Well, they're embarrassing, sure--he, hejust handled matters that were between the campaigns, before anything was done. Therewere surveys, et cetera, et cetera, etcetera, et cetera, There is no need to account for that. No law requires him toaccount for that.DEAN:Right. Uh, now-- PRESIDENT:The source of the money, there's noillegality in having a surplus, is there, incash afterwards?DEAN:No, the money-it has always been argued byStans--came from pre-convention.PRESIDENT:Pre-convention.DEAN:For the--and pre-primary for the, for the,uh...PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:...'68 race.PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:It was just set aside.PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:Uh, that, that all can be explained. Ithink that the--MARCH 21, l973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.44PRESIDENT:All right. How do your othervulnerabilities go together?DEAN:The other vulnerabilities: We've got a, uh,runaway Grand Jury up in the Southern District.PRESIDENT:Yeah, I heard.DEAN:They're after Mitchell and Stans on somesort of bribe or influence peddling...PRESIDENT:On Vesco.DEAN:...with Vesco.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Uh, they're also going to try to dragEhrlichman into that. Apparent' y,Ehrlichman had some meetings with Vesco,also. Uh, Don Nixon, Jr., came in to see John a couple of times, uh, about theproblem.PRESIDENT:Not about the Complaint. DEAN:That, there's uh--the fact of the matter is--PRESIDENT:He came about a job.DEAN:That's right. And, and, and, uh, I-MARCH 21, 1973, FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.45PRESIDENT:We're, it's--Ehrlichman's totally to blameon that.DEAN:Yeah. Well, I think...PRESIDENT:No White House (unintelligible). DEAN:No one has done anything for... PRESIDENT:...Vesco.DEAN:...Vesco.PRESIDENT:...matter of--not for the prosecutor. DEAN:No. (Coughs) The, uh--PRESIDENT:Would Ehrlichman, incidentally, have toappear there?DEAN:Before that Grand Jury? Yes. He could verywell.PRESIDENT:Uh, we couldn't presume immunity there?DEAN:Not really. Uh, criminal charge-- PRESIDENT:Criminal charge--yeah. (Unintelligible) thecharge is, mind you. Go ahead.DEAN:Right. That's a little different. (Clearsthroat) I think that would be dynamite to defend, uh...PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...against that.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.46PRESIDENT:Also, he, he distinguishes it. He says,"It's criminal charge; I'll be glad to goup." Use the Flanigan... -DEAN:Right. PRESIDENT:...analogy. DEAN:Right, uh, (clears throat) well, that's,that's pretty much the overall picture andprobably the most troublesome thing--well, the Segretti thing. Let's get down to that.I think Bob has indicated to me he told youa lot of, of it, that he, indeed, did authorize it. He didn't authorize anything like ultimately evolved.PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:He was aware of it. He was aware thatChapin and Strachan were looking forsomebody.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:Again, this is one that, uh, it is potentialthat Dwight Cha-, Chapin could have a felonycharge against him in this, because he's--PRESIDENT:Felony? DEAN:Felony. Because he has to, he has todisprove a negative. The negative is thathe didn't control and direct Segretti.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.47PRESIDENT:Would the felony be in perjury again? Or--DEAN:Uh, no. The felony this, in this instancebeing a potential use of the, one of thecivil rights statutes, for anybody who interferes with a candidate for, uh, national office--not in, interferes withtheir campaign in any way.PRESIDENT:shy isn't (unintelligible) civil rightsstatute be used to pick up any of theseclowns that were demonstrating against us,then?DEAN:Well, I have, I've, I've argued that theyuse that for that very purpose. Uh--PRESIDENT:Really?DEAN:Yes, I have. And, uh-- PRESIDENT:We were, those were, uh, that wasinterfering with the campaign. -DEAN:That's exactly right. That's exactly right.But they--PRESIDENT:The Segretti one, I think, uh, I'm not ascon-cerned about that because it's so badthe way it's been put out on the PR side, then I think it will eventually end up onthe PR side very confused. And it'll fool;bad when that's attributed, but I don't, I can't see the criminal thing, (clears throat) but I just may be wrong.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.48DEAN:Well, here, what really, what really bothersme is that this, this growing situation--asI say it is growing because of the, thecontinued need to-provide support for the...PRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:...Watergate people who are going toPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:...hold us up for everything they've got PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:...and the need for some people to perjurethemselves as they go down the road here. Uh, if this thing ever blows, and we're in a cover-up situation, I think it'd beextremely damaging to you, uh, and uh, the,uh--PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:Uh--PRESIDENT:The whole concept of Administration justice. DEAN:That's right, uh-- PRESIDENT:We cannot have--DEAN:That's what really troubles me. Forexample, what happens if it starts breaking, and they do find a criminal case against aHaldeman, a Dean, a Mitchell, an Ehrlichman?Uh, that is--MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.49PRESIDENT:Well, if it really comes down to that, wecannot, maybe--we'd have to shed it in orderto contain it again.DEALN:(Clears throat) That's right. I'm comingdown to the--what I really think is that, that, Bob and John and John Mitchell and Ishould sit down and spend a day, or howeverlong, to figure out (1) how this can be carved away from you, so it does not damageyou or the Presidency. 'Cause it justcan't. And it's not something, it, you're not involved in it and it's something you shouldn't--PRESIDENT:That is true.DEAN:I know, sir, it is. Well, I can just tellfrom our conversations that, you know, themare things that you have no knowledge of.PRESIDENT:The absurdity of the whole damned thing... DEAN:But it-- PRESIDENT:bugging and so on. Well, let me say I amkeenly aware of the fact that, uh, Colson,et al, and so forth were doing their best to get information and so forth and so on. Butthey all knew very well they were supposedto comply with the law.DEAN:That's right.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.50PRESIDENT:No question.DEAN:Uh--PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) you think--you feel thatreally the man, the triggerman was Colson on this end?DEAN:Well, no. He was one of se-, he was just inthe chain. He was, he helped push thething.PRESIDENT:Called him up and said, "we've got a, we'vegot (unintelligible)" I don't know what theChrist he would be doing. Oh, I'll bet you, I know why. That was at the time of ITT. He was trying to get something going therebecause ITT--they were bugging us, I meanthey wereDEAN:Right.PRESIDENT:...giving us hell.DEAN:Well, I know, I know he used, uh-- PRESIDENT:Hunt to go out there? DEAN:Hunt.PRESIDENT:I knew about that.DEAN:Yeah.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.51PRESIDENT:I did know about it at the time. I knewthat there was, there was something going onthere...DEAN:Right. PRESIDENT:...but I didn't know it was Hunt. DEAN:Right. Uh, that's what re, what reallytroubles me is, you know, (1) will thisthing not break some day and...PRESIDENT: Yeah.DEAN:...the whole thing--domino situation.PRESIDENT:Yeah DEAN:You know, they just, I think if it startscrumbling, fingers will be pointing, and--PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:Uh-- PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:Bob will be accused of things he has neverheard of...PRES IDENT: Yeah. DEAN:...and then he'll have to disprove it, andit'll just get nasty and it'll be a real,uh, real bad situation. And the person who will be hurt by it most will be you and...MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.52PRESIDENT:Of course.DEAN:...the Presidency, and I just don't think--PRESIDENT:First, because I'm expected to know this,and I'm supposed to, supposed to check these things. And so forth...DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:and so on. But let's, let's, let's comeback and go further. Sure. Yes, indeed. But what are your feelings, yourself, John?You know pretty well what they'll all say.What are your feelings toward the options?DEAN:I am not confident that, uh, we can ridethrough this. I think there are, I thinkthere are soft spots.PRESIDENT:You used to feel comfortable. DEAN:Well, I feel, I felt, I felt comfortable forthis reason. I've noticed of recent sincethe publicity has increased on, on this thing again, with the Gray hearings, that everybody is now starting to watch out fortheir own behind. Uh--PRESIDENT:That's right. DEAN:Everyone's pulling in. They're gettingtheir own counsel. More counsel aregetting..MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.53PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:...involved.PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:Uh, you know, "How do I protect my ass?" PRESIDENT:Well, they're scared. DEAN:They're scared and that's just, you know,that's bad. We were able to hold it for along time.PRESIDENT:Yeah, I know.DEAN:Uh, another thing is, you know, my facilitynow to deal with the multitude of people I have been dealing with has been hampered because of Gray blowing me up into the frontpage.PRESIDENT:Your cover's broken. DEAN:That's right and it's with, it was--PRESIDENT:(unintelligible) cover. All right. Now.So on. So, so, what you really come dozen to is, what in the hell, in the hell will you do? Let's, let us suppose that you andHaldeman and Ehrlichman and Mitchell say,uh, "We can't hold this". What, what then are you going to say? Are you going to putout a complete disclosure? Isn't that thebest plan?MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.54DEAN:Well, one way to do it is to--PRESIDENT:That'd by my view on it.DEAN:One way to do it is for you to in-, tell theAttorney General that you can finally, you know, really, this is the first time you're getting all the pieces together.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.55REEL 2 BEGINSDEAN:Uh--PRESIDENT:Ask for another grand jury?DEAN:Ask for another grand jury. The way itshould be done though, is a way that-- for example: I think that we could avoid, uh,criminal liability for countless people andthe ones that did get it, it could be minimal. REEL 1 ENDS(Noise)PRESIDENT:How? DEAN:Well, I think by just thinking it allthrough first, as to how some people couldbe granted immunity, uh...PRESIDENT:Like Magruder? DEAN:Yeah--to come forward. Uh, but some peopleare going to have to go to jail. That's thelong and short of it, also.PRESIDENT:Who? Let's talk about that. DEAN:All right. Uh, I think I could, for one.PRESIDENT:You go to jail?DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Oh, hell no. I can't see how you can. But,I--no...DEAN:Well, because... PRESIDENT:I can't see how, that--let me say I can'tsee how a legal case could be made againstyou, J-, uh, John.DEAN:It'd be, it'd be tough, but you know, uh... PRESIDENT:Well.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.56DEAN:I can see people pointing fingers, you know,to get it out of their own--put me in theimpossible position, disproving too manynegatives.PRESIDENT:Oh, no. Uh, let me say I--not becauseyou're here--but Just looking at it from acold legal standpoint: You are a lawyer, youwere a counsel--you were doing what you were doing as a counsel, and you were not, uh,...DEAN:(Clears throat)PRESIDENT:doing anything like that. You mean--hatwould you go to jail on (unintelligible)?DEAN:The obstruc-, the obstruction of justice.PRESIDENT:The obstruction of justice?DEAN:That's the only one that bothers me. PRESIDENT:Well, I don't know. I think that one, Ithink that, I feel could be cut off at thepass. Maybe the obstruction of Justice...DEAN:It could be a -- you know how -- one of the-- that's, that's why -- (sighs)PRESIDENT:Sometimes it's well to give them...DEAN:(Sighs) PRESIDENT:something, and then they don't want thebigger fish then.DEAN:That's right. I think that, uh, I thinkthat with proper coordination with the Department of Justice, Henry Petersen is theonly man I know bright enough andknowledgeable enough in the criminal laws and the process that could really tell us hot this could De put together so it did themaximum to carve it away with a minimumdamage to individuals involved.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.57(Noise)PRESIDENT:Petersen doesn't know the whole story?DEAN:No, I know he doesn't now. I know hedoesn't now. I am talking about somebody who I have over the years grown to have faith in. (Banging noises in background)(Clears throat) It is possible that he'dhave to, he'd have to, uh -- put him in a very difficult situation as the Head of theCriminal Division of the United StatesDepartment of Justice, and the oath of office...PRESIDENT:Tell me -- talking about your obstruction ofjustice role' I don't see it. I can't seeit. You're...DEAN:Well, I've been a con-, I have been aconduit for information on, on taking careof people out there who are guilty of crimes.PRESIDENT:Oh, you mean like the, uh, oh--theblackmail.DEAN:The blackmail right. PRESIDENT:Well, I wonder if that part of it can't be,(pause)I wonder if that doesn't--let me putit frankly: I wonder if that doesn't have to be continued?DEAN:(Clears throat)PRESIDENT:Let me cut it this way, let us suppose thatyou get, you, you get the million bucks and you get the proper way to handle it, and you could hold that side.DEAN:Um huh.PRESIDENT:It would seem to me that would beworthwhile.DEAN:(Clears throat)PRESIDENT:Now we have...MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.58DEAN:Well, that's, yeah that's...PRESIDENT:One problem; you've got a problem here. Youhave the problem of Hunt and uh, his, uh,his clemency.DEAN:That's right. And you're going to have theclemency problem for the others. They allwould expect to be out and that may put youin a position that's Just...PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:untenable at some point. You know, theWatergate Hearings just over, Hunt now demanding clemency or he is going to blow. And politically it'd be impossible for, youknow, you to do it. You know, aftereverybody...PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:I am not sure that you will ever be able todeliver on the clemency. It may be just too hot.PRESIDENT:You can't do it till after the '74elections, that's for sure. But eventhen...DEAN:(Clears throat)PRESIDENT:your point is that even then you couldn't doit.DEAN:That's right. It may further involve you ina way you shouldn't be involved in this.PRESIDENT:No it's wrong, that's for sure.DEAN:Well, whatever, you know, I, there've beensome bad Judgments made. There've been some necessary Judgments made. Uh...MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.59PRESIDENT:Before the election.DEAN:Before the election and, in a way, thenecessary ones, you know, before theelection. There, you know we've, this was to me there was no wayPRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:that uh...PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:But to burden this second AdministrationPRESIDENT:We're all in on it.DEAN:was something that, it's something that isnot going to go away.PRESIDENT:No it isn't.DEAN:It is not going to go away, sir.PRESIDENT:Not going to go away, it is, the idea that,uh, that, uh, well, that uh, that people aregoing to get tired of it and all that sortof thing...DEAN:Anything will spark it back into life. It'sgot to be, uh, it's got to be...PRESIDENT:Well, it's too much to the partisan interestof others to spark it back into life.DEAN:And it seems to me the only way that...PRESIDENT:Who else, though? Let's, let's leave youand I don't, I don't think on the, on, uh, on the obstruction of Justice thing, I think that one we can handle. I, I don't know whyI feel that way, but I...DEAN:Well, it is possible that I...MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.60PRESIDENT:I, I think you may be overplaying, but whoelse, uh, who else, who else do you think,has, uhDEAN:Potential criminal liability? PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:I think Ehrlichman does. I think that, uh,I think...PRESIDENT:Why Ehrlichman? What 'd he do? DEAN:Because this conspiracy to burglarize the,uh, uh, Ellsberg office.PRESIDENT:You mean, that, that is provided Huntbreaks.DEAN:Well, uh, the, the funny, let me saysomething interesting about that. Withinthe files...PRESIDENT:Oh, I saw that. The picture.DEAN:Yeah, the picture. That, see, that's notall that buried. And, while we can, we've got, I think we've got it buried, there is no telling when it's going to pop up. Uh,the Cubans, uh, could start this wholething. Uh, when the Ervin Committee starts running down why this mysterious telephonewas here at the White House, uh, listed inthe name of a secretary, one of these, some of these secretaries have a little idea about this, and they can be broken downJust...PRESIDENT:Sure DEAN:so fast. That's another thing I missed,missed in the cycle, in the circle. Uh,Liddy's secretary for example, isknowledgeable. Magruder's secretary is knowledgeable.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.61PRESIDENT:Sure.DEAN:Uh...PRESIDENT:So Ehrlichman on the, uh...DEAN:But what I am coming to you today with is Idon't have a plan of how to solve it right now, but I think it's at the Juncture thatwe should begin to think in terms of, of howto cut the losses; how to minimize the further growth of this thing; rather thanfurther compound it by, you know, ultimatelypaying these guys forever.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:I think we've got to look...PRESIDENT:But at the moment, don't you agree thatyou'd better get the Hunt thing? I mean, that's worth it, at the moment.DEAN:That, that's worth buying time on, rightPRESIDENT:And that's buying time on, I agree. DEAN:Uh, the, the Grand Jury is going toreconvene next week after Sirica sentences.Uh, but that's why I think that, you know,that John and Bob have met with me. They've never met with Mitchell on this. We'venever had a real doom and out witheverybody, that, uh, has the most to lose. And the most, and it is the most danger for you to have them have criminal liability. Ithink Bob has a potential criminalliability, frankly, I think, in other words, a lot of these people could be indicted. They might never...PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:might never, uh, be convicted; but just thethought ofMARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.62PRESIDENT:Suppose...PRESIDENT:Suppose that they are indicted in this.Suppose...DEAN:I think that would be devastating. PRESIDENT:Suppose the worst, that Bob is indicted andEhrlichman is indicted. And I must say,maybe we just better then try to tough itthrough. You get my point.DEAN:That's right. That...PRESIDENT:If, if, if, for example, our, uh, our -- saywell, let's cut our losses and you say we're going to go down the road, see if we can cut our losses, and no more blackmail and allthe rest, and the thing blows and theyindict Bob and the rest. Jesus, you'd never recover from that, John.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:It's better to fight it out instead. Yousee, that's the other thing, the other thing. It's better Just to fight it out,and not let people testify, so forth and soon. Now, on the other hand, we realize that we have these weaknesses-- that, uh, (pause)we've got this weakness in terms of-(pause)blackmail.DEAN:It's what, if we, you know, there, there aretwo routes, you know: One is to figure outhow to cut the losses and, and, and minimizethe, the human impact and get you up and out and away from it, in any way, uh, in, in a way that would never come back to haunt.Uh, that is one, one general alternative.The other is to go (cough) down the road, Just hunker doom, fight it at every corner,every turn, uh, don't let people testify,cover it up is what we'reMARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.63really talking about. Just keep it buried,and Just hope that we can do it, hope thatwe make good decisions at the right time,and keep our heads cool, uh, Ire make the right moves, uh...PRESIDENT:And just take the heat.DEAN:And just take the heat.PRESIDENT:Now, with the second line of attack. Youdiscussed this though I do want you to stillconsider my scheme of having y--, you briefthe Cabinet, Just in very general terms (unintelligible}in very general terms, and maybe some, some very general statement withregard to my-investigation. Answerquestions, and to, and to basically on the question of what they told you, not what youknowDEAN:Right. PRESIDENT:Haldeman is not involved. Ehrlichman... DEAN:Oh, I can, you know., if, if we go thatroute, sir, I can, I can give a show that,you know, there's uh, we can sell, you know, Just about like we were selling Wheaties onour position. There's no...PRESIDENT:The problem that you have are these, uh,mine fields down the road. I think the most difficult problem is the, are the, are the,are the guys that are going to Jail. Ithink you're right about that. I agree. Now. And also the fact that we're not going to be able to give them clemency.DEAN:That's right. How long will they take? Howlong will they sit there? I don't know. We don't know, what they&#8482;ll be sentenced to.There's always a chance...PRESIDENT:Thirty years, isn't it? Maximum?MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.64DEAN:It could be. You know, they haven'tannounced yet, but it, uh...PRESIDENT:Isn't that what the potential is?DEAN:Uh, it's even higher than that. It's aboutfifty years, with all the...PRESIDENT:So ridiculous.DEAN:Oh well, you know, what's so incredible is,the, these fellows who, who, sh...PRESIDENT:People break and enter, and so forth, andget two years.DEAN:Well, the other thing... PRESIDENT:No, no weapons. No results. What the hellare they talking about?DEAN:The, the individuals who are charged withshooting John Stennis are on the street. They were given, you know, uh, one was puton his personal recognizance rather thanbond. They've got these fellows all stuck with hundred thousand dollar bonds. The same Judge -- Sirica -- let one guy, who,who's (laughs) charged with shooting aUnited States Senator, out on the street.PRESIDENT:Sirica did?DEAN:Yeah. It's just, it's phenomenal.PRESIDENT:I thought he was a hardliner Judge. DEAN:He's a, he's is Just a, a peculiar animal,and uh, he set, set the bond for one of theothers -- I don't have all the facts, but heset the bond for one of the others -- somewhere around fifty or sixty thousand dollars. But still, that guy is in, butdidn't make bond, but you know, sixtythousand dollars as opposed to a hundred thousand dollars for these guys isphenomenal.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.65PRESIDENT:When could you have this meeting Judiththese fellows, as I think that time is ofthe essence, in my opinion.DEAN:(Clears throat) PRESIDENT:Could you do it this afternoon?DEAN:Well, Mitchell isn't here, and...PRESIDENT:Tomorrow?DEAN:It might be, might be worth it to have himcome down. And, now, I think that Bob andJohn did not want to talk to, to John aboutthis, John Mitchell. And I don't believe they've had any conversations with him about it.(Loud noises on desk)DEAN:Bob and I have talked about just what we'retalking about this morning. I told him Ithought that you should have the facts, andhe agrees. Cause we've got some tough calls down the road if we...PRESIDENT:Let me say, though that Hunt(unintelligible) (dragging noise on desk)hard line, and that a convicted felon is goings to go out and squeal (unintelligible)(dragging noise on desk) as we about this(unintelligible) decision (unintelligible) turns on that.DEAN:Well, we can always, you know, on the otherside, ore can always charge them with black-mailing us, and it's. you know, this is absurd stuff they're saying and... (Pause)PRESIDENT:That's right. You see, even the way you putit out here, of course if it all came out,it may never, it may not never, never get there.(Haldeman enters the room)MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.66(Loud noises on desk)PRESIDENT:I was talking to John about this, uh, thiswhole situation, and I think we, uh, so thatwe can get away from the bits and pieces that have broken out. He is right in having in, in, uh, recommending that, that, uh,that there be a meet' no at the very firstpossible time. Ehrlichman, and now Ehrlichman's gone on to California but, uh,is today, uh, is tomorrow Thursday?HALDEMAN:Uh, he John doesn't go until Friday. DEAN:Friday... PRESIDENT:Well, in any event, could we do it.Thursday? This meeting: This meeting youcan't do it today, can you?DEAN:I don't think so. I was suggesting ameeting with Mitchell...PRESIDENT:Mitchell, Ehrlichman, yourself and Bob'that's all. Now, Mitchell has to be there because, uh, uh, he is seriously involvedand, uh, we're trying to keep, uh, we've gotto see how we, uh, hole we handle it from here on. We are in the process of having todetermine which way to go and, uh, John hasthought it through, as well as he can. I do, I don't want Moore there on this occasion.DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:You haven't told Moore all of this, haveyou?DEAN:Moore's got, uh, by being with me, has morebits and pieces. I've had to give himPRESIDENT:Right. DEAN:because he is makingMARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.67PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:judgments that, uh...PRESIDENT:Well, the point is, once you get down to thePR, once you decide what you're going to do, then we can let him know, and so forth and so on. But it is the kind of thing, I thinkwhat really has to happen is for you to sitdown with those three and for you to tell them exactly what you told me.DEAN:Um huh.PRESIDENT:It may take him about thirty-five or forty-five minutes. In other words he knows, John, uh, uh, knows about everything andalso what all the, uh, what all thepotential criminal liabilities are, you know, whether it's, uh, what's it like thatthing, what about, uh obstruction ,DEAN:Obstruction of justice. Right. PRESIDENT:So forth and so on. And, uh, the uh, Ithink, I think that's...Then we've go to,uh, see what the line is. Whether the lineis one of continuing to, uh, run a, try to run a total stonewall, and take the heatfrom that, uh, having in mind the fact that,uh, there are vulnerable points there; thevulnerable points being that, well, the first vulnerable points would be obvious.In other words, it would be, if, uh, uh, oneof the, uh, defendants, particularly Hunt, of course, who is the most vulnerable my opinion, might, uh, blow the whistle, andhe, he and his price is pretty high, but atleast, uh, we should, we should buy the time on that, uh, as I as I pointed out to John.Apparently...Who, who is dealing with Huntat the moment now that Colson's(unintelligible) -DEAN:Well, uh, Mitchell's lawyer and, uh...MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.68PRESIDENT:Colson's lawyer (unintelligible)DEAN:Colson's lawyer, both.PRESIDENT:familiar with him. Hunt has at least got toknow before he is sentenced that he's...HALDEMAN:Who's Colson's lawyer? (Characterizationdeleted) in his firm?DEAN:Shapiro. Right. Who lied to the, you know,who just...The other day, he came up and...HALDEMAN:Colson's told him everything, hasn't he?DEAN:Yup, I gather he has. Uh, the other thingthat bothered me about that is that he's, uh, a chatter. He came up to Fred Fielding, of my office, at Colson's going away party.I didn't go over there. It was over at theBlair House the other night. And he said to, uh, Fred, he said, "Well, Chuck has hadsome mighty serious words, with, uh, his,his friend Howard and had some mighty serious messages back." Now, you know, what's a lawyer how does he know whatFielding knows? Cause Fielding knowsvirtually nothing. (Laughs)PRESIDENT:Well, anyway.HALDEMAN:That's, that's where your dangers lie, is inall these stupid human errors developing.PRESIDENT:That's very... DEAN:That's...that's...PRESIDENT:Well, the point is, Bob, let's face it, thesecretaries know, the assistants know. There's a lot of the, many of the damn principals may be hard as a rock, but younever know when they're going to crack.But, so, we'll see, we'll see. First you've got the Hunt problem. That ought to behandled.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.69DEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Uh, incidentally, I do not think Colsonshould sit in this meeting. Do you agree?DEAN:No. I would agree. PRESIDENT:Okay. Uh, how then...who does sit and talkto Colson? Because somebody has to,shouldn't we talk to...DEAN:Chuck, uh... PRESIDENT:talks too much.DEAN:(Sighs) I, I, you know, I like Chuck(laughs) but, uh, I don't want Chuck, to know anything that I'm doing frankly. (Laughs)PRESIDENT:All right.HALDEMAN:I think that's right. I, I think you wantto be careful not to give Chuck any moreknowledge than he's already got.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:Sure. Well... DEAN:I wouldn't want Chuck to even know of themeeting, frankly.PRESIDENT:Fortunately, fortunately, with Chuck, it isvery, I, I talk to him about many, manypolitical things, but I never talk aboutthis sort of thing 'cause he's, uh, he's very harmful, I mean I don't think... he must be damn sure I don't know anything.And I don't. In fact, I'm rather surprisedat what you told me today. From what you said, I gathered the impression, and of course, your, your, your analysis does notfor sure, uh, indicate that Chuck knew thatit was a bugging operation for certain.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.70DEAN:That's correct. 1 don't have...PRESIDENT:On the other hand, on the other hand that,DEAN:Chuck, Chuck denies that...PRESIDENT:on the other hand, the other side of that isthat Hunt had conversations with Chuck, and it may be that Hunt told Chuck that it wasbugging, and so forth and so on.DEAN:Um huh. PRESINENT:Is that correct?DEAN:Um hum. They were very close. They, theytalked too much, uh, about too many things.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:They were intimate on this sort of (coughs)HALDEMAN:Well then Chuck...PRESIDENT:There's another thing you can't... HALDEMAN:Chuck has a problem. Chuck loves,PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMANhe loves what he does. PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:He likes to talk about it.PRESIDENT:He also is a name dropper. Chuck might havegone around and talked to Hunt and said "Well, I was talking to the President, andthe President feels we ought to getinformation about this, or that or the other thing," and so forth and so on.DEAN:Well, Liddy is the same way, and...MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.71PRESIDENT:I have talked to, I have talked to...thisand that and the other thing. I, I havenever talked to anybody, but I have talkedto Chuck and John and the rest and I am sure that Chuck may have, Chuck might have eventalked to Hunt along those lines.HALDEMAN:I would...well, anything could happen. Iwould doubt that.DEAN:I would doubt that too.HALDEMAN:I don't think he would. Uh, Chuck is a namedropper in one sense, but not in that sense.PRESIDENT:Well, then do you think... HALDEMAN:I think he very carefully keeps thePresident out of things. (Noise)PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:Except when he's doing it, when he's veryintentionally bringing the President in for,for the President's purposes.PRESIDENT:He had the impression though, apparently,that he, he was the, as it turns out, reallyis, the trigger man. Uh, may of damn wellhave been the trigger man where he just called up and said, "Now look here Jeb, goahead and get that information. And(unintelligible) got to be a decision on it at that time. This is February.DEAN:Yes sir, I figure it was some other...PRESIDENT:It must be the...I...it must have beenafter...DEAN:This was the call to Magruder from Colsonsaying &#64257;Fish or cut bait.&#64258; Hunt and Liddywere in his office.HALDEMAN:In Colson's office?MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.72DEAN:In Colson's office. And he called Magruderand said, "Let's fish or cut bait on thisoperation. Let's get it going.&#64258;HALDEMAN:Oh, really?DEAN:Yeah. This is...Magruder tells me this.HALDEMAN:Of course. That...PRESIDENT:Well, on the other hand...HALDEMAN:Now wait, Magruder testified(unintelligible)(Several voices unintelligible)DEAN:Chuck, Chuck, also told me that, uh, Huntand Liddy were in his office and he made a call.HALDEMAN:Oh, okay.DEAN:So it did, it was corroborated by the, theprincipal.HALDEMAN:Hunt-and Liddy haven't told you that,though?DEAN:No. HALDEMAN:You haven't talked to Hunt and Liddy?DEAN:I talked to Liddy once, right after theincident.PRESIDENT:I'm sorry about that. All right, the pointis, the point is this, that uh, it's nowtime, though, to, uh, that Mitchell has got to sit down, and know where the hell all this thing stands too. You see, John isconcerned, as you know, Bob, about, uh,Ehrlichman, which, uh, worries me a great deal because it's a. uh, uh, a-, and this is why the Hunt problem is so serious, uh,because, uh, it-had nothing to do with thecampaign.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.73DEAN:Right, it, uh...PRESIDENT:Properly, it has to do with the Ellsbergthing. I don't know what the hell, uh...HALDEMAN:But why... PRESIDENT:Yeah. Why...I don't know. HALDEMAN:What I was going to say is...PRESIDENT:What is the answer on that? How do you keepthat out? I don't know. Well, we can't keep it out if Hunt..if..you see the pointis, it is irrevelant. Once it has gotten tothis point...DEAN:You might, you might put it on a nationalsecurity ground basis, which it really, itwas.HALDEMAN:It absolutely was. DEAN:And just say that, uh...PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:that this is not, you know, this was...PRESIDENT:Not paid with CIA funds DEAN:Uh...PRESIDENT:No, seriously, National security. We had toget information for national security grounds.DEAN:Well, then the question is, why didn't theCIA do it or why didn't the FBI do it?PRESIDENT:Because they were...we had to do it, we hadto do it, on a confidential basis.HALDEMAN:Because we were checking them?MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.74PRESIDENT:Neither could be trustedHALDEMAN:Well, I think...PRESIDENT:That's the way I view it.HALDEMAN:That has never been proven. There wasreason to question theirPRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:PositionPRESIDENT:You see really, with the bombing thing andeverything coming out, the whole thing wasnational security.DEANI think we can probably get, get by on that. PRESIDENT:I think on that one, I think you'd simplysay this was a national securityinvestigation that was conducted. And thesame with the drug field with Krogh. Krogh could say I...if Krogh were toif(unintelligible) he feels that-heperjured(unintelligible) it was a national security matter. That's why...DEAN:That's the way Bud rests easy, because he's,he's, he's convinced that he was doingit...he said there was treason about the country, and it could have threatened theway the war was handled. Uh, and by God...PRESIDENT:Bud, Bud said this? DEAN:Yes PRESIDENT:Well, Bud could say that and say this, itdoes involve...it was a national securityand I was not in a position to divulge it. Well anyway, let's don't go beyond that. We're...forget...but I do think now we, uh,I mean, there is, there is a time, now whenyou don't want to talk to Mitchell. HeMARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.75CONT:doesn't want to talk, and the rest. ButJohn is right. There must be a, must be afour way talk here of the particular onesthat we can trust here. Uh, we've got to get a decision on it. It's not something that...you see you got two ways, basically.There are really only two ways you could go.You either decide the whole God damned thing is so full of problems with potentialcriminal liability which is what concernsme. I don't give a damn about the publicity. We could, we could rock that through, if we had to let the whole thinghang out. It would be a lousy story for amonth. But I can take it. But the point is, I don't want any criminal liability.That's the thing that I am concerned aboutfor members of the White House staff and I would trust for members of the Committee. And that means Magruder.DEAN:Um.PRESIDENT:Let's face it. He's the one that's, uh...I think Magruder is the major guy overthere.DEAN:I think he's got the most serious problem. PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Well, then we talked about yesterday,you've,got a, you got a question where your cut off point is. There is a possibility of cutting it at Liddy, PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:But to accomplish that requires:PRESIDENT:Requires what? HALDEMAN:Requires continued perjury by Magruder.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.76PRESIDENT:Yeah. And it requires total...DEAN:commitment...PRESIDENT:Control, got total, got total control overall of the defendants, which...in other words (unintelligible)DEAN:The basic position...HALDEMAN:They don't know anything, beyond Liddy.DEAN:Uh, no. Other than the fact, other 'hen thefact that Liddy, they have hearsay, uh...HALDEMAN:But we don't know about Hunt. Maybe Hunthas it tied in to Colson. We don't know that, though really.DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:I think Hunt knows a hell of a lot more.DEAN:Yeah, I do too. And now what McCord... HALDEMAN:You think he does? I am afraid you'reright, but, uh, we don't know that.PRESIDENT:I think we better assume it. I think Colson DEAN:And he's playing hard ball, and he wouldn'tplay hard...HALDEMAN:Is he?DEAN:Yeah. He wouldn't play hard ball unless hewere pretty confident that he could cause anawful lot of grief.HALDEMAN:Really? DEAN:Yeah.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.77PRESIDENT:He is playing hard boiled ball with regardto Ehrlichman, for example, and that sort ofthing. He knows what he's got.HALDEMAN:What's he planning on, money? DEAN:Yeah, money and... HALDEMAN:ReallyDEAN:Oh, yeah. He's uh...PRESIDENT:It's a hundred and twenty thousand dollars.It's about what, about how much, which iseasy. I mean, it's not easy to deliver, butit is easy to get. Uh, now, uh (nine seconds of silence) If that, if what, if that, if that is the case, if it's Just thatway, then the thing to do is, if, if, thething all, uh, cracks out...if, if for, if, for example, you say look we're not, we'renot going to continue to try to, let's stateit frankly...cut our losses...that's just one way you could go...on the assumption that we're, we, by continuing to cut ourlosses, we're not going to win. That in theend, we are going to be bled to death, and it's all going to come out anyway, and thenyou get the worst of both worlds. We aregoing to lose and people are going to...HALDEMAN:And look (unintelligible) PRESIDENT:And we're going to look like we covered up.So that we can't do. Now. The other, theother, uh, the other line, however, uh, if you, if you take that line, that we're not going to continue to cut our losses, thatmeans then `;e have to look square in theeye as to what the hell those losses are, and see which people can...so we can avoidcriminal liability. Right?DEAN:That's right.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.78PRESIDENT:And that means, we got to, we've got to keepit off of you, uh, which I, which I(unintelligible) obstruction of Justicething. We've got to keep it off Ehrlichman. We've got to keep it, naturally, off of Bob, off Chapin, if possible, and Strachan.Right?DEAN:Um hum. PRESIDENT:And Mitchell. Right?DEAN:Um hum.PRESIDENT:Now. HALDEMAN:And Magruder, if you can. But that's theone you pretty much have to give up.PRESIDENT:But, but Magruder, Magruder, uh, uh, John's,Dean's point is that if Magruder goes doyen, he'll pull everybody with him.HALDEMAN:That's my view.PRESIDENT:Is it? HALDEMAN:Yup. I think Jeb, I don't think he wantsto. And I think he even would try not to,but I don't think he is able not to.DEAN:I don't think he is strong enough, when itreally...HALDEMAN:Well, not that' not that...PRESIDENT:Well, another way, another way to do it thenBob is to...and John realizes this...is to, Pause) uh, continue to try to cut ourlosses. w we have to look at that course ofaction. First, it is going to require approximately a million dollars to take care of the jackasses that are in jail. Thatcould be, that could be arranged.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.79HALDEMAN orDEAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:That could be arranged. But you realizethat after we're gone. I mean, assuming these (unintelligible) are, they're going to crack, you know what I mean? And that'll bean unseemly story. Eventually, all thepeople aren't going to care that much.DEAN:That's right. It's...PRESIDENT:People aren't going to care.DEAN:So much history will pass between then andnow.PRESIDENT:In other words, what we're talking about itno question. But the second thing is we'renot going to be able to deliver on, on any kind of a, of a clemency thing. You knowColson has gone around on this clemencything with Hunt and the rest.DEAN:Hunt, Hunt is now talking in terms of beingout by Christmas.HALDEMAN:This year?DEAN:This year. Uh, he was told by O'Brien, whois my conveyor of doom back and forth...HALDEMAN:Yeah.DEAN:uh, that, uh, hell, he'd be lucky if he wereout a year from now, after the Ervin hearings were, uh, you know, over. He said,"How in the Lord's name could you becommuted that quickly?" He said, "Well, that's my commitment from Colson."HALDEMAN:By Christmas of this year?DEAN:Yeah.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.80HALDEMAN:See, that, that really, that's verybelieveable cause ColsonPRESIDENT:Do you think Colson could have told himHALDEMAN:Colson is an, is an that's, that's yourfatal flaw, really, in Chuck, is he is an operator in expediency, and he will pay atthe time and where he is whatever he has to,to accomplish what he's there to do. And that's...I, I would believe that he has madethat commitment if Hunt says he has. Iwould believe he is capable of saying that.PRESIDENT:The only thing you could do with him wouldbe to parole him for a period of timebecause of his family situation. But youcouldn't provide clemency.DEAN:No, I...uh, Kleindienst has now got controlof the parole board, and he said that now wecan, we can pull paroles off now where we couldn't before. So...PRESIDENT:Well, parole...HALDEMAN:Yeah, but Kleindienst always tells you that,and then never delivers.PRESIDENT:Parole, parole. Let's talk candidly aboutthat. Parole (unintelligible) in humanterms, and so forth, is something that I think in Hunt's case you could do Hunt, but you couldn't do the others. You understand?DEAN:Well, so much depends upon hoist Siricasentences. He can sentence, sentence in a way that, uh, makes parole even impossible.PRESIDENT:Oh, he can?DEAN:Sure. He can do all kinds of permanentsentences. Yeah. He can be a, just a son- of-a-bitch, uh, as far, as the whole thing.(Pause)MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.81HALDEMAN:Of course, can't you appeal on a, on anunjust sentence, as well as on an unjustconviction?DEAN:You've got sixty days to ask the Judge toreview it. There is no appellate review of sentences.HALDEMAN:There isn't?DEAN:Not that I... PRESIDENT:The judge can review it, yeah.HALDEMAN:Only the sentencing judge can review his ownsentence?PRESIDENT:Coming back, though, to this. So you gotthat...the, uh, hanging over. Now. If, uh,you see if you let it hang there, the pointis you could let all or only part...The point is, your feeling is that we just can'tcontinue to, to pay the blackmail of theseguys?DEAN:I think that's our greatest jeopardy. HALDEMAN:Yeah.PRESIDENT:Now, let me tell you, it'sDEAN:'Cause that is... PRESIDENT:no problem, we could, we could get themoney. There is no problem in that. Wecan't provide the clemency. The money can be provided. Mitchell could provide the way to deliver it. That could be done. Seewhat I mean?HALDEMAN:But, Mitchell says he can't, doesn't he?MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.82DEAN:Mitchell says that, uh...well,Mitch...that's, it's, you know, there hasbeen an interesting thing, uh, phenomena allthe way along on this, is that there have been a lot of people having to pull oars and not everybody pulls them all the same time,the same way, because their developed self-interests.HALDEMAN:What John is saying is that everybody smilesat Dean and says, "Well, you better getsomething done about it."DEAN:That's right PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:And Mitch..., Mitchell is leaving Deanhanging out on a...None of us, well maybe we're doing the same thing to you.DEAN:That's right.HALDEMAN:But I...let me say that, that I don't seehow there's any way that you can have the White House, or anybody presently in theWhite House, involved in trying to gin outof this money.DEAN:We are already deeply enough in that.That's the problem, Bob.PRESIDENT:I thought you said you could handle themoney?DEAN:Well, in fact, that, uh, when...PRESIDENT:Kalmbach?DEAN:Well, Kalmbach, uh, was a... HALDEMAN:He's not the one DEAN:No, but when they ran out of that money, asyou know, they came after the three-fiftythat was over here.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.83PRESIDENT:And they used that, right?DEAN:And I had to explain what it was (laughs)for, uh, before I could get the money.PRESIDENT:Well, you said... DEAN:Now, they...now, that...they... HALDEMAN:That was put, that was, that was...in thefirst place, that was put back to LaRue.DEAN:That's right. HALDEMAN:where it belonged. It wasn't all returnedin a lump sum. It was put back in pieces.DEAN:That's right. PRESIDENT:And then LaRue used it for this otherpurpose?DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Well, I think they can get that. HALDEMAN:And the balance was all returned to LaRue.DEAN:That's right.HALDEMAN:The problem is we don't have any receipt forthat, do we. We have no way of proving that.(Pause)PRESIDENT:I (unintelligible) DEAN:And I think, I think that was because, youknow, of self-interest over there. Mitchellshould...HALDEMAN:Mitchell told LaRue not to take it at all. DEAN:That's right.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.84HALDEMAN:This is what you told me.DEAN:That's right. And then you don't give thema receipt.PRESIDENT:Well, then, but what happened? LaRue toolit, and then what?DEAN:Well, it was sent back to him because weJust couldn't continue piecemeal giving, youknow, I ask it...Every time I asked for it, I had to tell Bob I needed some, orsomething like that...PRESIDENT:Yeah DEAN:and he had to get Gordon Strachan to go upto his safe and take it out and take it overto LaRue.PRESIDENT:Yeah. DEAN:This was just a forever operation.PRESIDENT:Then what? Why didn't they take it all tohim?DEAN:I think it's sent over with him. HALDEMAN:Well, we had been trying to get a way to getthat money back out of here anyway.PRESIDENT:Sure. HALDEMAN:And what this was supposed to be was loans.This was...PRESIDENT:Yeah HALDEMAN:immediate cash needs that was going to bere..., replenished. And Mitchell wasarguing "You can't take the three-fifty backtill it's all replenished." Isn't that right?DEAN:That' s right. Well--in the, uh...MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.85HALDEMAN:And then they never replenished it, so wejust gave it all back anyway.PRENT:I have a feeling we could handle this one.Well...DEAN:Well, first of all, they'd have a hell of atime proving it. Uh, that's one thing.Uh...PRESIDENT:Yeah, yeah...I just have a feeling on it.But let's now come back to the money, amillion dollars, and so forth and so on.Let me say that I think you could get that in cash, and I know money is hard, but there are ways. That could be (unintelligible).But the point is, uh, what would you do onthat...Let's, let's look at the hard facts.DEAN:I mean, that's been very interesting. Thathas been, thus far, the most difficultproblem.PRESIDENT:Why? DEAN:They have been that's why these fellows havebeen on or off the reservation all the wayalong.PRESIDENT:So the hard place is this. Your, yourfeeling at the present time is the hell withthe million dollars. In other words, you say to these fellows, "I am sorry, it is all off," and let them talk. Right?DEAN:Well...PRESIDENT:That, that's the way to do it, isn't it? DEAN:That... PRESIDENT:If you want to do it clean (unintelligible)MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.86HALDEMAN:See, then when you do it, it's a way you canlive with. Because the problem with theblackmail, and that's the thing we keptraising with you `'hen you said there's a money problem, when are need twenty thousand or a hundred thousand or something, wasyeah, that's what you need today. But whatdo you need tomorrow and next year and five years from now'PRESIDEMT:How long?DEAN:Well, that was just to get us throughNovember seventh, though.HALDEMAN:I recognize that's what we had to giveDEAN:Right.HALDEMAN:to November seventh. There's no question. DEAN:Except they could have sold...these fellowscould have sold out to the Democrats for afantastic amount.PRESIDENT:Yeah, these fellows but of course, you know,these fellows, though, as far as that planwas concerned.HALDEMAN:But what is there? PRESIDENT:As far as what happened up to this time, ourcover there is just going to be the CubanCommittee did this for them up through theelection.DEAN:Well, yeah. We can put that together, Thatisn't, of course, quite the way it happened,but, uh...PRESIDENT:I know, but it's the way it's going to haveto happen.DEAN:It's going to have to happen.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.87PRESIDENT:That's right. Finally, though, so you letit go. So what happens is then they go outand, uh, and they'll start blowing thewhistle on everybody else. Isn't that what it really gets down to?DEAN:Um hum.PRESIDENT:So that, that would be the, the clean way,Right?DEAN:Uh,...PRESIDENT:Is that really you're..you, you really go sofar as to recommend that?DEAN:That...no, I wouldn't. I don't think, Idon't think necessarily that's the cleanestway. One of the..I think that's what we allneed to discuss; is there some way that we can get our story before a grand jury, andso, that they can have, have reallyinvestigated the White House on this...I mean, and I must, I must be perfectly honest, I haven't really thought throughthat alternative. We've been, you know,been so busy. (Background noise)PRESIDENT:JohnDEAN:on the other containment situationPRESIDENT:John Ehrlichman, of course, has raised thepoint of another grand jury. I just don't know how you're going to do it. On whatbasis. I, I could call for it, but I...DEAN:That would be, I would think, uh...PRESIDENT:The President takes the leadership and says,"Now, in view of all this, uh, stripped landand so forth, I understand this, but I, Ithink I want another grand jury proceeding and, and we'll have the White House appearbefore them." Is that right John?MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.89DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:That's the point you see. That would makethe difference. (Noise banging on desk) Iwant everybody in the White House called. And that, that gives you the, a reason not to have to go up before the (unintelligible)Committee. It puts it in a, in an executivesession in a sense.HALDEMAN:Right.PRESIDENT:Right.DEAN:Uh, well...HALDEMAN:And there'd be some rules of evidence.aren't there?DEAN:There are rules of evidence.PRESIDENT:Both evidence and you have lawyers aHALDEMAN:So you are in a hell of a lot betterposition than you are up there.DEAN:No, you can't have a lawyer before a grandjury.PRESIDENT:Oh, no. That's right.DEAN:You can't have a lawyer before a grand Jury.HALDEMAN:Okay, but you, but you, you do have rules ofevidence. You can refuse to talk.DEAN:You can take the Fifth Amendment.PRESIDENT:That's right. That's right. HALDEMAN:You can say you forgot, too, can't you? DEAN:Sure. -PRESIDENT:That's right.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.89DEAN:But you can't...you're...very high risk inperjury situation.PRESIDENT:That's right. Just be damned sure you say Idon't...HALDEMAN:Yeah... PRESIDENT:remember; I can't recall, I can't give anyhonest, an answer to that that I can recall.But that's it.HALDEMAN:You have the same perjury thing on the Hill,don't you?DEAN:That&#8482;s right. PRESIDENT:Oh hell, yes. HALDEMAN:And, and they'll be doing things on(unintelligible)PRESIDENT:My point is, though... HALDEMAN:which is a hell of a lot worse to deal with.DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:The grand jury thing has its, uh, uh, uhview of this they might, uh. Suppose we have a grand jury proceeding. Would that,would that, what would that do to the Ervinthing? Would it go right ahead any way?DEAN:Probably.HALDEMAN:If you do it in executive...PRESIDENT:But then on that score, though, wehave...let me Just, uh, run by that, that...you do that on a grand jury, we couldthen have a much better cause in terms ofsaying "Look this is a grand jury, in which, uh, the prosecutor..." How about a special prosecutor? We could use Peterson, or useanother one. You see he is probablysuspect. Would you call...MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.90DEAN:No.PRESIDENT:in another prosecutor?DEAN:I'd like to have Petersen on our side,advising us (laughs) frankly.PRESIDENT:Frankly, well, Petersen is honest. Isanybody about to be, question him, are they?DEAN:No, no, but he'll get a barrage when, uh,these Watergate hearings start.PRESIDENT:Yes, but he can go up and say that he's he'sbeen told to go further in the Grand Juryand go into this and that, and the other thing. Call everybody in the White House.I want them to come. I leant the, uh, uh,to go to the Grand Jury.DEAN:This may result...this may happen evenwithout our calling for it, when, uh, whenthese, uh...PRESIDENT:Vesco? DEAN:No. Well, that's one possibility. Butalso, when these people go back before theGrand Jury, here, they are going to pull allthese criminal defendants back in before the Grand Jury and immunize themPRESIDENT:And immunize them: Why? Who? Are you goingto...on what?DEAN:Uh, the U. S. Attorney's Office will. PRESIDENT:To do what?DEAN:To talk about anything further they want totalk about.PRESIDENT:Yeah. What do they gain out of it? DEAN:Nothing.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.91PRESIDENT:To hell with then.DEAN:They, they're going to stonewall it, uh, asit now stands. Except for Hunt. That'swhy, that's the leverage in his threat.HALDEMAN:This is Hunt's opportunity. DEAN:This is Hunt's opportunity.PRESIDENT:That's why, that's why...HALDEMAN:God, if he can lay this... PRESIDENT:that's why your, for your immediate thingyou've got no choice with Hunt but thehundred and twenty or whatever it is. Right?DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:Would you agree that that's a buy timething, you better damn well get that done, but fast?DEAN:I think he ought to be given some signalanyway, to, to...PRESIDENTYes. DEAN:Yeah...you know.PRESIDENT:Well, for Christ's sakes, get it fir, a, ina way that, uh (pause) who's, who's going to talk to him? Colson? He's the one who'ssupposed to know him.DEAN:Well, Colson doesn't have any money though.That's the thing. That's been our, one of the real problems. They have, uh, beenunable to raise any money. A milliondollars in cash, or, or the like, has been Just a very difficult problem as we've discussed before. Apparently, Mitchell hastalked to Pappas, and I called himMARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.92last...John asked me to call him last nightafter our discussion and after you'd metwith John to see where that was. And I, Isaid, "Have you talked to, to Pappas?" He was at home, and Martha picked up the phone so it was all in, in code. "Did you talk tothe Greek?" And he said, uh, "Yes, I have."And I said, "Is the Greek bearing gifts?" He said, "'tell, I `'ant to call you tomorrowon that."PRESIDENT:Well, look, uh, what is it that you need onthat, uh, when, uh, uh? Now look(unintelligible) I am, uh unfamiliar withthe money situation.DEAN:Well that, you know it, it sounds easy todo, apparently, until, uh, everyone is outthere doing it and that's where ourbreakdown has, has come every time.PRESIDENT:Well, if you had it, where would you, howwould you get it to somebody?DEAN:Well, I, uh, I gather LaRue just leaves itin mail boxes and things like that, and tells Hunt to go pick it up. Someone phonesHunt and tells him to pick it up. As I say'we're a bunch of amateurs in that business.HALDEMAN:That was the thing that we thought Mitchellought to be able to know holy to find some-body who could do all that sort of thing,because none of us know how to.DEAN:That's right. You got to wash money and allthat sort, you know, if you get a hundredthousand out of a bank, and it all comes inserialized bills, and...PRESIDENT:Oh, I understand.DEAN:And that means you have to go to Vegas withit or a bookmaker in 'few York City, and I've learned all these things after the fact, it's (laughs) great shape for the nexttime around.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.93(Laughter)HALDEMAN:Jesus. .PRESIDENT:Well, the main point now is, the people whowill need the money (unintelligible) well of course, you've got the surplus from the campaign. That we have to -account for.But if there's any other money hangingaround...HALDEMAN:Well, but what about all the, what about themoney we moved back out of the...here?DEAN:Apparently, there's some there. That mightbe what they can use. Uh, I don't know how much is left.PRESIDENT:Kalmbach must have some, doesn't he?DEAN:Kalmbach doesn't have a cent. PRESIDENT:He doesn't?DEAN:See the new law...HALDEMAN:No, see that three-fifty that we moved outwas all we saved. Because they were afraid to because of this...that's what I mean;that's the trouble. We are so God damnedsquare that (laughs) we'd get caught on everything.PRESIDENT:Well, could I suggest that this though, uh,now, let me, let, let me go back around (unintelligible) They will then, uh...(unintelligible)HALDEMAN:Be careful...PRESIDENT:The, uh (pause) the grand jury thing hasappeal. Ouestion is, uh...it, it at least says that we are cooperatingDEAN:Well...PRESIDENT:with the Grand Jury.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.94DEAN:Once we, once we start doom any route thatinvolves the criminal justice system...PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:you, you've got to have full appreciation ofthere is really no control over that.PRESIDENT:No sir.DEAN:Uh, while we did, uh, we had a, an amazingjob of...PRESIDENT:Yeah, I know.DEAN:keeping the thing on the track before...PRESIDENT:Straight. DEAN:while the FBI was out there, all that...andthat was, uh, only because...PRESIDENT:RightDEAN:I had a (unintelligible) of where they weregoing.PRESIDENT: (unintelligible) Right. Right. But youhaven't got that now because everybody else is going to have a lawyer. Let's take the new Grand Jury. Uh, the nest Grand Jurywould call Magruder again, wouldn't it?DEAN:But, based on what information it would?For example, what hangers if Dean goes inand gives a story, you know, that here isthe way it all came about. It eras supposed to be a legitimate operation and it obviously got off the track. I heard ofthese horribles, told Haldeman that weshouldn't be involved in it. ThenMagruder's going to have to be called in and questioned about all those meetings againand the like. And it begins to... againhe'll begin to change his story as to what he told the Grand Jury the last time.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.95PRESIDENT:Well...DEAN:That way, he's in a perjury situation.HALDEMAN:Except, that's the best leverage you've goton Jeb...is that he's got to keep his story straight or he's in real trouble.DEAN:That's right.HALDEMAN:Unless they get smart and give him immunity.If they, immunize .Jeb, then you haste an interesting problem (pause)(Tapping on desk)PRESIDENT:He wouldn't DEAN:Well, I think we have... HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) immunityDEAN:we have control, we have control over whogets immunized.HALDEMAN:Do we?DEAN:Yeah, I think they wouldn't do that withoutour...PRESIDENT:But you see, the Grand Jury proceeding(unintelligible) sort of thing, you can godown that road and then...if...if theyhad...I'm just thinking of now how the President looks. We would be cooperating.We would be cooperating through the GrandJury. Everybody would be behind us. That's the proper way to do this. It should be done through a grand jury, not up there inthe kleig lights of the Committee, or...DEAN:That's right.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.96PRESIDENT:Nobody's questioning if it's a grand jury,and so forth. So, and then we would insiston executive privilege before the Committee,flat out say, "No we won't do that. We&#8482;re not going to do it. Matter before a grand jury&#64258; and that's that. You see...HALDEMAN:All right, then you go to the next step.Would we then...the Grand Ju.., the Grand Jury meet in executive session?DEAN:Yes sir, they're...PRESIDENT:Always... DEAN:secret sessions, they're secret. HALDEMAN:Secret session...PRESIDENT:Secret...HALDEMAN:All right, then would we agree to releaseour statement, our Grand Jury transcripts?DEAN:That's not, that's not for our...we don't,have the authority to do that. That's up to the Court and the Court, thus far, has not released the ones from the last Grand Jury.PRESIDENT:They usually are not.DEAN:It would be highly unusual for a grand furyto come out. What should happen is...HALDEMAN:But a lot of the stuff from the Grand Jurycame out.PRESIDENT:Leaks. Well... DEAN:It came out of the U. S. Attorney'sOffice...PRESIDENT:Yeah.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.97DEAN:more than the, the Grand Jury. We don'tknow. Some of the Grand Jurors may haveleaked...PRESIDENT:Right, right. DEAN:it, but they were... PRESIDENT:Bob, it's not so bad. It's just not thebad...or the worst place. But...HALDEMAN:Well, what I was. I was going the other waythere. I was going to...it might be to ourinterest to get it out.PRESIDENT:Well, we, we could easily do that. Leak outcertain stuff. We could pretty much control that. We&#8482;ve got much more control there.Now the other possibility is not to go tothe Grand Jury. Then you've got three things. (1) You Just say, "The hell withit, we can't raise the money, sorry Hunt,you can say what you want." And so Hunt blows the whistle. Right?DEAN:Right.PRESIDENT:All right, if that happens, then that raisessome possibilities of other criminal...because he is likely to say ahell of a lot of things and he's certain toget Magruder on it.DEAN:It'll get Magruder. It'll start the wholeFBI investigation going again.PRESIDENT:Yeah. So, uh, what else...it'll getMagruder, it could possibly get Colson. He's in that danger. .DEAN:That's right. Could get, uh...PRESIDENT:Could get Mitchell. Maybe. No.HALDEMAN:Hunt can't get Mitchell.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.98DEAN:I don't think Hunt can get Mitchell. Hunt'sgot a lot of hearsay.PRESIDENT:Ehrlichman? He could on the otherthing...except Ehrlichman (unintelligible)DEAN:Krogh, Krogh could go down in smoke. Uh... PRESIDENT:Because Krogh, uh...where could anybody...but on the other hand, Krogh, just sayshe, uh, uh, Krogh says this is a national security matter. Is that what he says?Yeah, he said that.DEAN:Yeah, but that won't sell, ultimately, in acriminal situation. It may be mitigating on sentences but it won't, uh, in the mainmatter...HALDEMAN:Well, then that... PRESIDENT:That's right. Try to look around the track.We have no choice on Hunt but to try to keephim...DEAN:Right now, we have no choice. PRESIDENT:But, but my point is, do you ever have anychoice on Hunt? That's the point.DEAN:(Sighs) PRESIDENT:No matter what we do here now, John...DEAN:Well. if we...PRESIDENT:Hunt eventually, if he isn't going to getcommuted and so forth, he's going to bloat the whistle.DEAN:What I have been trying to conceive of ishow we could lay out everything we know (sighs) in a way that, you knows we've told the Grand Jury or somebody else, so that ifa Hunt blows...MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.99PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEANso what's new? You know, it's already beentold to a grand Jury, and they found nocriminal liability, and they investigated it in full. We're sorry fellow...PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:Uh, we don't, it doesn't...PRESIDENT:Including Ehrlichman's use of Hunt on theother deal?DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:You'd throw that out? DEAN:Uh, well, Hunt will go to jail for thattoo...he's got to understand that.PRESIDENT:That's the point too. I don't think that...I wouldn't throw that out. I think I would limit it to...I don't think you needto go into every God damned thing Hunt hasdoneDEAN:No. PRESIDENT:He's done some things in the nationalsecurity area. Yes, true.HALDEMAN:We've already said that. Anyway, I mean,we've laid the ground work for that.DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:But here is the point, John: So you gothat...let's go to the other extreme, the other, the other angle is to decide on,well, if you open up the Grand Jury, first,it won't do any good; it won't be believed. And then you'll have two things going: The Grand Jury and you have the other thing. Atleast the Grand Jury appeals toMARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.100me from the standpoint, it's the Presidentmakes the move. "Since all these chargeshave been bandied about, and so forth, thebest thing to do is to...I have ordered, or I have asked the Grand Jury to look into any further charges. All charges have beenraised." That's the place to do it and notbefore a committee of the Congress. Right?DEAN:Um hum.PRESIDENT:Then, however, we may say, Mitchell, et al.,God we can't risk that, I mean, uh, all sorts of shit'll break loose there. Then that leaves you to your third thing. Thethird thing is just to continue to...DEAN:Hunker down and fight it. PRESIDENT:All right. If you hunker down and fight it,fight it and what happens?DEAN:Your... PRESIDENT:Your view is that, that is, is not really aviable option.DEAN:It's a veryit's a high risk. A very high risk.PRESIDENT:A high risk, because your view is that whatwill happen out of that is that it's goingto come out.Somebody's...Hunt...something's going to break loose...DEAN:Something is going to break and...PRESIDENT:When it breaks it'll look like the PresidentDEAN:...is covering up...REEL 2 ENDSMARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.101REEL 3 BEGINSDEAN:Your...PRESIDENT:Your view is that that is, is not really aviable option.DEAN:In fact, it's a high risk. A very highrisk.PRESIDENT:A high risk, because your view is that whatwill happen out of that is that it's going to come out.Somebody's...Hunt...something's going tobreak loose...DEAN:Something is going to break and... PRESIDENT:When it breaks it'll look like thePresident...DEAN:...is covering up... PRESIDENT:is, has covered up a huge, uh, uh, this -Right?DEANThat's correct. HALDEMAN:But you can't contain the charge. PRESIDENT:That's not... (Noise)DEAN:I just don't... PRESIDENT:You're, you'reDEAN:I don't think it's...PRESIDENT:You now have, uh, moved away from the hunkerdown.(Noise)DEAN:Well, I've moved to the point that we'vecertainly got to take a, a harder look at the other alternative, which we haven't before.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.102PRESIDENT:The other alternatives.DEAN:The other alternatives. RightPRESIDENT:Three other choices, wouldn't you say? As amatter of fact, your m-, middle ground of Grand Jury. And then there's finally the on ground of -- No, I suppose there's a middleground.DEAN:And I would - PRESIDENT:or the middle grounds of a public statement,without a Grand Jury.DEAN:What we need also, sir - PRESIDENT:And also - HALDEMAN:But John's view is if we make the publicstatementPRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:that we talked - I raised that this morning,the, the thing we talked about last night.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:If each of us PRESIDENT:YeahHALDEMAN:make moves,PRESIDENT:Yeah HALDEMAN:He says that will immediately lead to aGrand Jury.PRESIDENT:Fine - all right, fine.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.103HALDEMAN:As soon as we make that statement, they'llhave to call a Grand Jury.PRESIDENT:Then maybe we make the public statementbefore the Grand Jury, in order to -HALDEMAN:So it looks like we are trying to do itover.DEAN:All right, say all right, say here arepublic statements, and we want, we want, uh,PRESIDENT:Yeah.DEAN:full Grand Jury investigationPRESIDENT:Yeah DEAN:by the U. S. Attorney's Office PRESIDENT:Curious to see whether this statement's,then, that&#8482;s right. That I, but - And thatwe&#8482;ve said that the reason that we had delayed this is until after the sentencing.You see, the point is, the reason that timeis of the essence, we can't play around with this, is that they're going to sentence on Friday. We're going to move the God damnedthing pretty fast. See what I mean?DEAN:That's right.(Pause)PRESIDENT:So we've got to act, we really haven't timeto (unintelligible)DEAN:The other, the other thing is that theAttorney General could call Sirica, and saythat. "The Government has some majordevelopments that it's considering. Would you hold sentencing for two weeks?" If we set ourself on a course of action.MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.104PRESIDENT:Yep, yep.DEAN:Say, that "The sentencing may be in thewrong perspective right now. I don't knowfor certain, but I just think there are some things that ? uh, I am not at liberty to discuss with you, that I want to ask thatthe, the court withhold two weekssentencing.&#64258;HALDEMAN:So then the story is out: "Sirica DelaysSentencing Watergate For --"DEAN:I think, I think that could be handled in away between Sirica and Kleindienst that it would not get out.PRESIDENT:No.DEAN:Sirica tells me, I mean Kleindienstapparently does-have good rapport withSirica. He's never talked to him since thiscase has developed,HALDEMAN orPRESIDENT:Why not?DEAN:but, uh -PRESIDENT:That's helpful. Kleindienst could say thathe's, uh, he's working on something andwould like, like, like to have a week. Iwouldn't take two weeks. I would take a week.DEAN:I'll tell you the person that I would, youknow, I feel that, uh, we' we could use hiscounsel on this, because he understands the criminal process better than anybody over here does,MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.105PRESIDENT:Petersen?DEAN:is Petersen. It, it's awkward for Petersen.He's the head of the Criminal Division. But to discuss sorelated to this case, you will have no relation." Uh, and proved," or so on and so forth. We almost need him out of there to take his counsel. That would, uhPRESIDENT:How could you get him out?DEAN:I think an appeal directly to Henry, uh,that uhPRESIDENT:Why doesn't the President - could, could thePresident call him in as Special Counsel to the White - to the, to the White House for the purpose of DEAN:I have thought of that. I have thought ofthat.PRESIDENT:have him as Special Counsel to represent tothe Grand Jury and the rest.DEAN:That is one possibility.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:On the basis that Dean has now become aprincipal rather than a Special Counsel.DEAN:Uh huh.RCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.106PRESIDENT:That's right.DEAN:Uh huh.PRESIDENT:And that he's a --DEAN:And I, and I could recommend that to you. PRESIDENT:He could recommend it, you could recommendit, and Petersen would come over and be the,uh - and I'd say, "Now --"HALDEMAN:Petersen's planning to leave, anyway. PRESIDENT:And I'd say, "Now,"DEAN:Is he?HALDEMAN:Yep-- PRESIDENT:"I want you to get - we want you to (1) -"We'd say to Petersen, "We want you to get tothe bottom of the God damned thing, Callanother Grand Jury or anything else." Correct? Well, now you've got to follow upto see whether Kleindienst can get Sirica toput off - Right? If that is, if we - Second, you've got to get Mitchell down here. You and Ehrlichman and Mitchell andlet's - an - by tomorrow.HALDEMAN:Why don't we do that tonight? PRESIDENT:I don't think you can get him that soon, canyou?HALDEMAN:John? PRESIDENT:It would be helpful if you could. DEAN:I think it would be.PRESIDENT:You need --MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.107DEAN:Get him to cone down this afternoon.PRESIDENT:It would be very helpful to, to get itgoing. And, uh, uh, you know, and, uh, andthen, uh - Actually, uh, I'm perfectly willing to meet with the group, or I don't know whether -HALDEMAN:Do you think you want to?PRESIDENT:Maybe have Dean report to me at the end, asto what are, as to what conclusions, etcetera what you want to do. I thing Ishould stay away from the Mitchell side of it at this point.DEAN:Ih huh.PRESIDENT:Do you agree?DEAN:Uh huh. PRESIDENT:and, uh -DEAN:And I think, unless we see, you know, somesort of a reluctant dragon there --HALDEMAN:You might try to meet with the rest of us,I, I'm, I'm not sure you'd want to meet withJohn in a group of us. (Noise) (Pause)Okay, let me see if I can get it done.PRESIDENT:All right. Fine. That's it, my point isthat' uh, we can, uh, you may well come - Ithink it is good (noise) frankly, to outsider these various options. And then, once you, once you decide on the plan - John- and you had the right plan, let me say, Ihave no doubts about the right plan before the election. And you handled it just right. You contained it. - Now after theelection we've got to have another plan,because we can't have, for four years,MARCH 21, 1973 FROM 10:12 TO 11:55 A.M.108PRESIDENT:Cont:we can't have this thing - you're going tobe eaten away. We can't do itDEAN:-Well, there's been a change-in the mood HALDEMAN:John's point is exactly right, that theerosion here now is going to you, and thatis the thing that we've got to turn off, atwhatever the cost and we've got to figure out where to turn it off at the lowest costwe can, but at whatever cost it takes.DEAN:That's what, that's what we have to do. PRESIDENT:Well, the erosion is inevitably going tocome here, apart from anything, you know,people saying that, uh' well, the Watergateisn't a major concern. It isn't. But it would, but it will be. It's bound to be.DEAN:We cannot let you be tarnished by thatsituation.PRESIDENT:Well, I (unintelligible) also because IAlthough Ron Ziegler has to go out -Theyblame the (unintelligible) on the WhiteHouse (unintelligible)DEAN:That's right.PRESIDENT:We don't, uh, uh, I say that the White Housecan't do it. Right?HALDEMAN:Yeah. DEAN:Yes. sir.