TRANSCRIPT OF A RECORDING OF A MEETING BETWEEN THEPRESIDENT AND H.R.HALDEMAN ON APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40P.M. TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:Hi. Come on in.HALDEMAN:Well, that is hard work. Good God! It'samazing it works awfully wellPRESIDENT:Good.HALDEMAN:...in picking up the, uh, guest, It doesn'tpick up you well. It must be set on the side of the desk or something.PRESIDENT:Could you get them both?HALDEMAN:Yes, on either side of your desk. PRESIDENT:Very good.HALDEMAN:And, uh, it's hard as hell to hear you, so you gotta keep looking back and re-working.PRESIDENT:It&#8482;s pretty frustrating, but, uh-It's, it'sin there. There is the meeting where-this isthe meeting in the morning of March twenty-first(tape noise)had Ehrlichman for an hour at first. Then you had Steve in and talked about the plan for going to Key Biscayne thenext night after your meeting with Shultz...2APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:um hmm.HALDEMAN:...in the late afternoon, down to KeyBiscayne for your long weekend, Thursdaynight. (Unintelligible with tape noise) Gray and the problems there and the strategy ofthe FBI and stuff like that a bit. And thenDean said, "The reason for this meeting this morning is that you don't really know what I know, so it's difficult for you to makejudgments And, uh, he said, "Overallthere's-no doubt about the seriousness of all this. There's a cancer close to thePresidency. It's growing daily; it'scompounding itself We're being blackmailed. People are going to start perjuring to protect others and there's no assurance itisn't all gonna bust. And, let's face it.First, let me fill you in on the Watergate." Then he went back to the beginning, went through the whole thing on how it cameabout.PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:It doesn't matter. Put the pieces together(unintelligible) the information(unintelligible with tape noise) aware of any of it, until, uh, afterwards. You don't know how much knowledge Mitchell had.PRESIDENT:I asked him how much knowledge(unintelligible).3APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:Yeah. (Unintelligible with tapenoise)himself. That, uh,-- "I honestly believe no one over here knew."And you askedabout Bob He said,"I don't believe Bob knewspecifically.I think Strachan did know. Bobknew there was a capacity. " He says(unintelligible with tape noise) seventeenth lie says, "I was underinstructions,under their instructions not toinvestigate. We worked on the theory of containment. We knew everything the FBI didand everything the Grand Jury did and Ihave-Petersen's soldier, he kept me informed of leads (unintelligible) in this Administration. He made sure theinvestigation was narrowed and there wasnothing improper about it, and they ran out each lead to the fullest extent and they kept"(unintelligible) But you said, "Whydidn't they call Haldeman?" Dean said,"There was no reason for calling'-,him," he,said. He said, "Strachan appeared, as aresult of coaching, to be the dumbest guy onthe Committee." That's Gordon Strachan. (Tape noise) --"the demands for attorneys' fees. You',re asking us to take this, uh,through the election, so, uh, you gotta havemoney to take care of other kinds and all that. So arrangements were made throughMitchell and I was present. I, Dean, waspresent. They had to be taken care of and their needs done and all that (unintelligible) operates cash. Some of itwent to Hunt's lawyer. His wife was takingmoney to a Cuban when her plane was shot down."4APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:--says (tape noise)"It's the first time Iever heard that."PRESIDENT:'Right.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) "is involvedand Ehrlichmanis, I am, and Mitchell is, That's obstruction of justice. And you said, "How is Haldeman involved?" He said, "We ran outof money and borrowed that three fifty inthe safe for polling and so they came here and I went to Haldeman and Haldeman said,&#64257;What's it for?&#64258; And I told him, and uh,we-as you know we had decided that there is no price too high to pay and blow it before the election. Now see, I told him none ofthat money was taken out until after theelection. So that's a&#8211;PRESIDENT:Right. HALDEMAN:...a point we gotta find out. Uh, he says"Now there'll be continual blackmail byHunt, Liddy and McCord, Colson had talked indirectly to Hunt about commutation(unintelligible with tape noise). Huntcalled his lawyer, O"Brien at CREEP Friday. The lawyer came to me. Hunt was demanding seventy-two thousand for personal money andfifty thousand for attorneys' fees and hesaid he had to have it by the close of business yesterday;5APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M. TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:that he was trying to get his(CONTINUED)affairs in order because he's gonna besentenced on Friday. This was on Wednesday.I told O'Brien he came to the wrong man. I'm not... I'm not involved with money. I don'tknow a thing about it and I can't help you."And he said,-"O'Brien is a great ball player. He's completely safe and no problem. Hunt made a direct threat against Ehrlichmanfor blackmail. He said, "I'll bringEhrlichman to his knees and put him in jail on Ellsberg and other things. "He said, "Idon't know the extent of the, the other. Itdepends on what are the soft points the Cuban (unintelligible) that,that Hunt..."PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:"These were the same people that Hunt andLiddy used in the California break-in. So, so, they knew about-_-Hunt and Liddy are (unintellligible) around the WhiteHouse."And you asked, "Why it was done." Hesaid, "I don't know," He said, "There are a couple of things here I've gotten into. Atone time there was a second-story job onBrookings," which I didn't know about. "And I was told Ehrlichman had instructed and I checked with him and he said he didn't knowanything about it and to turn it off. And Idid (unintelligible). He knows, uh," he said, "who knows about all this.6APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:The Cubans' lawyer, Rothblatt, who's(CONTINUED)a no-good son-of-a-bitch. F. Lee Bailey whocame in to cool Rothblatt down. (Unintelligible) Bittman, O'Brien, andParkinson. They're solid but they know. Thenall of the principals and some of the wives (unintelligible tape noise).You said,"-Someone did raise the question of meand Hunt's commutation." And I just said,"You-you got terribly upset about that (unintelligible) but obviously it's aserious problem, to the extent of"-Deansaid, "That's the extent of my knowledge." He said that, 'In soft spots there's one continuing blackmail. Not just now whenthey're in prison, but, ah, not just now butwhen they get to prison, they're gonna keep on with this and they compound the obstruction of justice problem and it'llcost money. You know, people here aren'tpros, they don't know how to do this kind of thing. " You said, "Well, maybe we can't doit." Dean said, "That's right, plus the,it's the problem of raising money." He said, "Mitchell's working on the money. There's no denying that Haldeman, Ehrlichman and Deanare involved in the early fund raising. "Yousaid, "How much money is involved in this. " Dean said, "Probably a million dollars overthe next few years." And you said, "If weneed the money we can get the money. We can get it in cash. I know where it could be gotten but the question is who can handleit?" Dean said, "That's right." -And, Deanthen said," Mitchell should be charged with that. And he ought to get some pros to helphim. He has LaRue getting it now and I toldhim, 'That, that's awful.7APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:He's also talked to Pappas!' You(CONTINUED)said, "I know," He said Pappas hasapparently agreed to help.PRESIDENT:I said?HALDEMAN:You said, "I know." Then you said, "Justthinking out loud here, would you put it through the Cuban Committee?" Dean said, "No."' And you said, "Well, it, it would bein cash. Is the Cuban Committee-some of thiswould be in cash-- Is the Cuban Committee involved in obstruction of justice?..Wouldn't that give it cover," Dean said,"Well, we need some for the Cubans and some for Hunt and then we have Liddy and McCord doesn't want one and he's not a bought manright now." Now that, sort of finished thesubject there and he got into the growing cancer business and you said "What do you mean?" He said, "Well, McCord would,-- Kroghperjured himself before the Grand Jury. He'shaunted by it and went into that. Mitchell and Magruder have potential perjuries andthere's a possibility of any individualblowing things (unintelligible) Then you said, "Your major one to control is Hunt because he knows so much." He said, "Right.He keeps saying Colson--he thinks Colsonabandoned him because he tried to see him about money and Colson wouldn't talk tohim-about money" and so on. And you said,"Looking at the immediate problem, don't you have to handle Hunt's financial situation?" And Dean said, "I talked to Mitchell aboutthat last night."8APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:And you said," We've got to keep the cap(CONTINUED)on the bottle that much, at least."Dean said," That's right. " You said,"Either that or let it all blow right now, "Then Dean said, " That's the question." Thenyou got into the Kalmbach thing. Dean explained about the one twenty-seven million Kalmbach had in boxes. Said he'd spent a lotof it. This is fascinating because I didn'tknow any of this. He spent a good deal since '69. Five hundred thousand for privatepolling; four hundred thousand for the Southfor another candidate. That wasn't for Wallace, it was for the guy who ran against Wallace.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) for the guy who ran againsthim in 70. He mentioned Tony who did the Chappaquiddick study. You said, "Iheard about that." And he said-- and yousaid, that, "There's nothing illegal" or something. Dean said, "No, nothing illegal,but it was explosive." He said, " I don'tknow anything illegal where Kalmbach did it except that he won't blow the whistle on people and that therefore he may get himselfinto perjury." Now for example, I asked himabout Segretti and where he'd get the cash. And you said, "How do we handle that?" AndDean said, " Well, it doesn't bother me,there's no crime there, it's just politically embarassing. Other vulnerabilities, that runaway Grand Jury inNew York on Mitchell and Stans." Ehrlichmanthinks-9APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:he says," They're gonna try and grabEhrlichman(unintelligible) and, uh,Ehrlichman may have to appear at that Grand Jury." You said, "Would he have privilege?"He said, "No, there's no privilegedinformation."PRESIDENT:I said or he did? HALDEMAN:You said, "he would have privilege." Deansaid, "No." Then he got into the Segrettithing and, and same stuff that you already have-that Haldeman did authorize it and thepotential felony charge for Chapin. The realproblem is that-I'm not too concerned about that, it's the problem on the PR side, but that's all. He said, "Well, the real problemis the growing situation of support for theWatergate people and the need for some people to perjure themselves. If this ever blows and we&#8482;re in a cover-up situation,it'll be extremely damaging to you. Forexample, if it starts breaking and they find a criminal case against Haldeman, uh, Dean,Mitchell, or Ehrlichman. "You said, "Comingdown to that fact we cannot take the heat. We have to share it-we have to shave it a little." I think that's what it boils downto. (Unintelligible).10APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:"Haldeman, Ehrlichman and Mitchell and I(CONTINUED)should sit down and spend a day or howeverlong to figure it out. And, uh, try tofigure how to carve this away from you sothat it doesn't, uh, (,tape noise) you orthe Presidency, damage you or the Presidency, and, uh, (unintelligible) I just don't know about this but it's obvious, Iknow from our conversations that, uh, theseare things that you had no knowledge of." And, uh, you said, "The triggerman wasColson on this" and Dean said , 'Well, hewas just in a chain of command. And, and uh, the problem is, will this break some day with a domino situation? For instance,Haldeman will be accused of things that henever heard of, and the President will be hurt from those." Dean said, "I am not confident we can ride through. this. Thereare Soft spots-everybooy looking out forhimself and getting counsel, worried or hoping for a long time but (unintelligible)by the Gray thing getting me on the frontpages."PRESIDENT:Mmm. HALDEMAN:"Suppose you and Haldeman and Ehrlichman andMitchell put out a full disclosure. " Deansaid, "Well, that's one way. " And, uh, then you said-then he said, " And we can have thePresident tell the Attorney General he wantsanother Grand Jury. And, uh, put that out to avoid criminal liability for many people and a minimum for the rest by thinking throughthe immunity question. " And, you said youmight tell Magruder something. He said, "Yeah, but some of them will have to go tojail.&#64258;11,APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:You said," Who? Let's talk about that."(CONTINUED)Dean said, " I think I would, for one."You said, "Oh, no, no!" Dean said,, "Yeah."I can see people starting to point thefinger on the obstruction of justice." Yousaid, "You were just doing it as counsel. We can cut it off at the Pass." Dean said, think that proper coordination with theDepartment of Justice, maybe we could.Petersen is the only one I know that's bright enough to advise us, to put together&#352;put this together with maximum separationfor the President and minumum damage to the individuals. I have faith in him. Ah, I have just been the conduit of information, takingcare of people who are guilty of crimes andthat's, what they're getting on obstruction of justice, that's how they're getting-I was a conduit taking care of people who wereguilty of crimes." (Unintelligible). Thenyou said, "Suppose you got the money and had a way to handle it. It would seem to me thatwould be worthwhile but we'd still have theproblem of Hunt's clemency." Dean said, "Right. And the others-It may be untenable. I'm not sure you can deliver on clemency."And you said, "Not before the '74 electionfor sure." He said, "It may involve-it may further involve you in this," and you said,"Yes, and it's wrong."12APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:Dean said, "There have been some bad(CONTINUED)judgements made and some necessaryjudgements made before the election, but we can't burden the second administration withsomething that won't go away." It has to be(unintelligible) you said," Who else (unintelligible) would have criminal problems?" Dean said, "Ehrlicbman. On aconspiracy to bug Ellsberg--to burglarizeEllsberg's doctor." He said," Ya know, there's a picture in the files."PRESIDENT:I didn't know about that. All right.(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:"It's embarassing-that's gonna come out sometime and, uh, then, there's the question whythere was a phone in the White House in thesecretary's name and, uh, I have a plan but, uh, you should, uh, think in terms of how to cut the losses and not futher compoundthem." And then you said that,"A1 the momentdon't you agree we better take care of the Hunt thing?"PRESIDENT:Yeah, well, I-HALDEMAN:"Ehrlichman and Haldeman have met withme,But they've never met with Mitchell&#64258;, and he said, "Haldeman has a potential criminalliability (unintelligible). Uh, he's, may beindicted but might not be convicted." The President said, "If they're gonna beindicted, it's better to tough it throughcutour losses so if it blows, we'll never recover.13APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M. TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:So we'll have to cut it out with no one(CONTINUED)testifying. You got to realize theweakness on the blackmail. "Dean said, "Whatwe need to do is get you up and out and awayfrom it. Or else hunker down and fight it atevery turn and hope we can do it (unintelligible)." You said, "Still consider this point of briefing the Cabinet, theleaders and so on on my investigation."Deansaid, "If we go there, we'll have to give (unintelligible).." You said, "The mostdifficult problems are the guys going tojail and clemency. How long will they sit tight?" You said, "Have a meeting fast, today." He said, "We can't. Mitchell's nothere." You said," Tomorrow." Dean said,"Hunt,-- Haldeman and Ehrlichman don't want to talk to Mitchell. Haldeman agrees that you, you should have the facts and wanted meto talk to you." Somewhere at that point, Ithink, I can't tell on the tape, but it's obvious because I talked with him(unintelligible)? We can charge them withblackmailing us. He said, "I talked to Ehrlichman, he's gotta get away from this. But he recommends a meeting at the earliesttime." Then you pushed for a meeting withHaldeman and Mitchell. You said," I don't. "You said, "I don't want to go over there.You decide and let me know. You tell themexactly what you told me about the obstruction and then see what the line is, whether we stonewall it or whether we takethe heat. If it's stonewall and take theheat, or we can analyze the vulnerable points, especially Hunt.14APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:The question of whether Hunt'll blow the(CONTINUED)whistle." And you said to me, "Thepoint is all the secretaries and so on,"--you started explaining to me, other words,(unintelligible) problem. Then, uh, (tapenoise) me for the first time about the Colson-Magruder phone call. I was kind of surprised about that. You said," The Huntproblem is serious because of Ellsberg."Dean said, Well, we can put that on a National Security basis. But then they'llsay why didn't the CIA or FBI do it,11 and Isaid, "Because we were checking them." And, uh, Dean said, "Well, we could probably get by on that that solves the Krogh, Kroghpro-problem, that, that there was treasoninvolved here. That's what they're investigating." You said, "We must have a talk with Mitchell. The cut off point isthat a possibility it still, could be Liddybecause that's where we are now and that's all we know at this point. But thatrequires-if, if Magruder is lying--it wouldrequire continued perjury by Magruder." And Dean then said to me, this is the first I was there," Hunt's playing hard ball withus. I said, "what, what, what about? Money?"Dean said, "Yeah." You said, Yeah. A hundred and twenty thousand dollars." You said,"That's easy to get but it's not easy todeliver. And trying to cut our losses won't work. We have to look at what they are and avoid criminal liability."15APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M. TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:I said that?HALDEMAN.Uh, huh. And you said," Well, there'sanother way, but it would require a million dollars to take care of the defendants. Butthen they'll crack after we're gone, anyway.You can't deliver on clemency and Colson's promises. Hunt's talking about being out by Christmas." Then he reported the thing aboutKleindienst takes control of the ParoleBoard now he says, "We can deliver on parole." Whether we'll still be ableto-special parole. Dean said, "Our greatestjeopardy is paying the blackmail." You said, we can get the dollars. There's no problem with that, but we can't provide theclemency. "And I said," I don't see any waythe White House or anyone in the White House can be involved in trying to get Hunt the money.&#64258; And Dean said," Well, we're alreadydeeply involved in that, that's theproblem." And, uh, then he got into that when they ran out of the Kalmbach money theygot the three fifty and I said," That wassimply moved where it belonged." And Dean said, "Every time we ask for, ya know, we've had to get Strachan to go to the safe andtake it to LaRue, which would have been aforever operation." And, uh, and you said, "Back to the money. The ways to get it.(Pause). The hell with the million (tapenoise) it's all off," But I mean you made (unintelligible).16APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:"So let it go. Then blow the whistle(CONTINUED)and, uh, (unintelligible) is thatyour recommendation?" Dean said, No, notnecessarily. It's better to get our storybefore the Grand Jury and let theminvestigate the White House. But I haven't thought that through." That's where I quit because I, I figured I had enough and betterget over here. Uh, because.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:&#8211;Apparently, some more on there is, thereis, uh, I would say that confirms yourrecollection pretty much the way you said it-the way you recalled it. And then, I don't really see a need(unintelligible) .PRESIDENT:Really?HALDEMAN:No. PRESIDENT:Well, I say though that, well(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:...we can get the money.PRESIDENT:...we can get the money. HALDEMAN:Okay. But you didn't do it and we're drawinghim out on the question of what, what's inthe box.PRESIDENT:Money, what could we do with it? You get themoney, how do ya deliver it? Yeah.HALDEMAN:That's...PRESIDENT:...that really (unintelligible).17APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:Okay. You're drawing Dean out on what he'stalking about here.PRESIDENT:You have to know exactly what he has. HALDEMAN:And the conclusion, in fact, was, don't doit. You can't do it.PRESIDENT:It's not a good story, best we can HALDEMAN:He raises a lot of, a lot of new stuff.That's it.PRESIDENT:Well. The new stuffHALDEMAN:It's interesting. He's told you a differentstory than. he's told to me.PRESIDENT:Well, (unintelligible). I said, well,that's-- we gotta keep the cap on it. We can get the money, huh? But I saidHALDEMAN:Ya see, you're trying it out.PRESIDENT:Yeah.HALDEMAN:You're trying to see how far it goes. Yousaid, "Is that your recommendation?" That's, you do that all the time. You ask peoplequestions on the basis of--, to try and seewhat direction they're going. That's...they're leading questions. But itdoesn't mean that your statement is(unintelligible).PRESIDENT:I said a million dollars. With a milliondollars (unintelligible) clemency. Youcouldn't do it till after the '74 elections.That's an incriminating thing. His, his word against the President's.18APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M. TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) tape recorder(CONTINUED)in his pocket.HALDEMAN:At this point, you're, you're investigating(pause)(10 second unintelligible.)HALDEMAN:Twenty-first?PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:It all started on the seventeenth. PRESIDENT:Yeah, (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Oh yeah, he must've been talking from notes.I mean it sure looked like it-I mean sounded like it.PRESIDENT:It, it made quite an orderly report he'd puttogether.HALDEMAN:Uh, he told you that the bugging informationdid come to Strachan and to Haldeman,there's no doubt about it.PRESIDENT:Not the whole thing (unintelligible). HALDEMAN:You just want the Hunt part of it? PRESIDENT:Yep.HALDEMAN:Okay. "(Unintelligible). O'Brien came tome.' Hunt is demanding seventy-two thousand for personal needs and fifty for attorneyfees by the close of business yesterday andwants to get his affairs in order cause he's gonna be sentenced on Friday.' I said to O'Brien,' You came to the wrong man. I'm notinvolved in money and I don't now a thingabout it and I can't help you.&#64258; Dean states O'Brien's a great ball player(unintelligible).19APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:He made a direct threat against hrlichman.Hunt said, "I'll bring hrlichman to his knees, put him in jail." Ellsberg and otherevents, seamy things (unintelligible) theydid (unintelligible) extent they were involved in, soft spots. He said, "The first one is a continuing blackmailPRESIDENT:All right.HALDEMAN:"Not just now but when they're in prison andso on. So they compound the obstruction ofjustice problemand it'll, it'll cost a lotof money. The people here aren't pros, they don't know how to do this sort of thing." You said, "Maybe we can't." (Unintelligible)closer to the problem of raising money(unintelligible) was working on the money. (Unintelligible) and I have (unintelligible) fund raising." You said," How much money isinvolved?" He said," a million dollars overthe next few years." You said, "You might, we could get the money. We can get it incash ' I know where it could be gotten butthe question is who can handle it?" He said, "That's right." (tape noise) He said," Mitchell should be charged with thatresponsibility and get some pros to helphim. He has LaRue out getting it. I told him that's awful. He's also talked to Pappas."You said, I know." He said, "Pappas hasagreed to help." "Just thinking out loud here, would you put it through the Cuban Committee?" He said, "No." (Unintelligiblewith tape noise) cash, is the CubanCommittee, obstruction of justice20APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:would that give it a cover." He(CONTINUED)said, "We need some for the Cubans and somefor Hunt." We can't say (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:Krogh's problems-on that thing you said,"Your major one to control is Hunt, because he knows so much.&#64258; He said, "Right. He kept saying Colson cause he thinks Colsonabandoned him (unintelligible.) "Don't youhave to handle Hunt's financial situation?" Dean said," I talked to Mitchell about thatlast night. "You said, "You got to keep thecap on the bottle that much cause it's"&#352;Dean said, "That's right." You said, &#64257;Either that or let it all blow right now." Dean said,"That's the question."PRESIDENT:That's not a bad line for me at that point,is it? Political or is it gonna come down.HALDEMAN:I don't think so. You're smoking him out onwhat he thinks the alternatives arePRESIDENT: Yeah. HALDEMAN:You're pumping him.PRESIDENT:Yeah.21APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:As you did on other things here, -in thesevarious things you would say to well, youknow, "What would you do about this and what, where would you go on that?" Then theygot to the attempt (unintelligible),"Supposeyou got the money and the way to handle, things. It would seem to me that would be worthwhile." You said," We'd have a problemwith Hunt's clemency" (Unintelligible) andthe others maybe (unintelligible) and the others that may be untenable. I'm not sureyou can deliver on clemency.". You said,Not before the '74 election for sure." Dean said,"It may further involve you." You said," Yes, and it would be,--then it'swrong."PRESIDENT:That's not bad. HALDEMAN:Dean said "There've been some bad judgementsmade and some necessary judgements madebefore the election, but you can't burdenthe second administration with something that won&#8482;t go away. There has to be--" Andyou said, &#64257;'Well, who else is a potentialcriminal?" Dean said, 'You know I don't have a plan but we should think in terms of how to cut the losses and not further compoundthem." You said, "At the moment, don't youagree we better take of the Hunt thing. (unintellilgible)?"PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible with tape noise) it was justsort of lobbed in...(Tape noise).22APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:to the point of setting up a(CONTINUED)meeting with Ehrlichman (unintelligible)with Mitchell. (Tape noise). I think you wanted to analyze the vulnerable points suchas Hunt, the problem of whether Hunt wouldblow the whistle. Dean told me about the fact that Hunt had been a problem because of this-PRESIDENT:National Security,HALDEMAN:Well, uh, you say, you say the Hunt problemis serious because of Ellsberg. And theeffect on our National Security.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible Tape Noise) hard ball withus" and I said," What? What about, money?" and you said," Yes, 120,000, which is easyto get, but it's not easy to deliver. Wehave to try to cut our losses but it won't work, so we have to look at what they are to avoid criminal liability."(Tape Noise). I, Ioughta 90 back and get your verbatim points.These are--my desk--It's hard as hell to get you on this thing.PRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:(unintelligible with tape noise)"wouldrequire a million dollars to take care of the defendants but they'll crack after we'regone."23APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:I said that?HALDEMAN:Um hmm. And then there was some discussionabout, you know, yeah, but, but then Dean said that was, that would be history but itwouldn't affect us directly or something.And, uh, (tape noise) he said something about we can't deliver on clemency. Colson's been dropping promises. Dean said," Yeah,Hunt's talking about being out byChristmas." (Unintelligible) Then they got into a parole discussion.PRESIDENT:Kleindienst to give parole, right?HALDEMAN:And then, uh, he came back with," Ourgreatest jeopardy is, is uh, the thing is blackmail." You said, "We can; you get thedollars. We can get the money. There's noproblem with that. But we can't deliver on clemency." I said," I don't see any way the White House or anyone in the White House can(unintelligible). "He said,(unintelligible). I think there's probably more. I think we went back over it again. Wegot more into the thing of, "But we can't doit, that it isn't right, (unintelligible)." I recall more discussion when I was there of the thing of it being--that we can't getinto this kind of a position.(Unintelligible) a position, and besides that it was National Security. It seems tome that there was more discussion and(unintelligible) but it isn't-24APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:50 P.M.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:If it is, it isn't (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:The are many questions based on that. He cansay that the President discussed we gottakeep the cap on the bottle, we gotta takecare of Hunt.HALDEMAN:Well, I'd say, it was because PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) how do we(unintelligible)-- money? Clemency notbefore '74? That's the vulnerable point.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) your positionPRESIDENT:(Unintelligible with tape noise) the factthat it never happened.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible with tape noise) drawing himout, that you made notes, steps on this.That you were also concerned, you weretrying to winnow' that one out because there was, there were factors in it that Dean didn't know anything about as thisconversation indicates, about the NationalSecurity. (Unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:That's--you may be pushing him there to findout whether he has set up a system of delivery and all that, which he didn't.PRESIDENT:What I'm really setting up there, puttingthe best light on a, on a bad situation, isbasic, basically, I'm saying," Well, get the money, but uh, we should try to cut it offand so forth-- but how do you do it?"25APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:You're being blackmailed, here on thisspecific question of, of the NationalSecurity point. Because what Hunt was holding ya up on, was not on the Watergate.PRESIDENT:Still, still-HALDEMAN:But, but on the, other, sea-my work forEhrlichman. All the other defendants were also involved in this.PRESIDENT;Is time (unintelligible) big pressure?HALDEMAN:Yeah. I don't think I think he's spinningout what, what he thinks Dean is looking atas his hole card.PRESIDENT:Kleindienst came over today (noise) and, uh,this memorandum he gave me(Unintelligible) And I authorized him to uh, pass that aheadpass it to the judge uh, cause(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:(UnintelligibleHALDEMAN:That was Wednesday. You met with him- that wasWednesday morning. You met with him again early afternoon in here with Mitchell, andEhrlichman...26APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:I know that.HALDEMAN:&#8211;and then later in the afternoon withEhrlichman.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Then I think you met wwith him Thursday, thenext day, before then you went to Key Biscayne Thursday night. I'll have to check the log. I'm not sure if Dean went with himThursday or not,but as I recall, I think hedid.PRESIDENT:(Tape noise) back here who had theconversation with Mitchell on the money.HALDEMAN:Yeah, it really isn't a conversation withMitchell on the money.PRESIDENT:Well.HALDEMAN:There was a conversation between Mitchelland Dean that we assumed was on, on the money, and, and we assumed (unintelligible) because we didn't say it there was somethingwe didn't want to get into. (Unintelligible)said, "Listen, I guess it's taken care of. There's no problem there. I guess, it'sworked out, I guess it's okay, something tothat effect. And, uh, the big question was, &#64257;Did you pay him the money, or didn't you pay him, or are you going to, or is some oneelse paying him, or did &#338;you tell him to goto hell or what?"27APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:The matter was my trying to get the facts,the truth, and that's the (unintelligible).Call in John, telling me for the first time (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:You're, you're probing.PRESIDENT:Right here. I'm interested in a cost, right? HALDEMAN:You (unintelligible), you never said thisis, you, you asked leading questions. Younev--, you said, well, we can get the money,that's no problem. You just see, (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Well, but I said we oughta, uh, at least weought to take care of that, didn't I say that though?HALDEMAN:Yeah, but that was to lead him on into thequestion of how to handle the money. And hedidn't buy. He said, " I don't know. You ought to get busy on-- if you gonna do that Mitchell ought to take care of it." Which iskind of interesting. You were trying tosmoke out whether Dean knew how to handle money. And was involved in this payoff stuffand it was clear he wasn't. He didn't knowhow to handle it, didn't give you any answer to the question, said," You ought to-that Mitchell ought to do that, get some pros tohandle it."28APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:Now, I think I'll find later in(CONTINUED)this thing, because I think I recall when Iwas there, a discussion of that where Dean was saying," No, our people don't know howto wash money, get it all worked out," andall that, and, uh, I think that will come up again, where you push him.PRESIDENT:I may have said later (unintelligible) dowhat you can on it.HALDEMAN:Well, you may be, may be dead-- I, I don'tthink you did.29APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:You were there (unintelligible) that day(unintelligible). You were there the rest ofthat day.HALDEMAN:(Tape noise) that morning.PRESIDENT:My recollection's fairly clear on that(unintelligible).HALDEMAN:Let me tell you one--maybe bothersome thingin that, I checked this (unintelligible) thetape works the, in here (tape noise). Inthe log, when the four of us met in here, with you, Dean and Mitchell were in for fiveminutes longer than Ehrlichman and I were.PRESIDENT:Yeah. That was when we discussed(unintelligible). I, uh, discussed money with Mitchell, never.HALDEMAN:Okay.PRESIDENT:Don't worry about that log? The only othertime.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible)HALDEMAN:&#8211;because at that point, Dean would havefelt, I'm sure, that the problem no longer existed because of the conversation he hadwith Mitchell. You may find on the a meetingin the evening, late in the day, with Ehrlichman, Dean, and me in here, that something was said about--with that being asmuch on your mind as it was in the morningI, I can't imagine that you didn't do something to follow up on it. Because youwouldn't, you, you wouldn't just letsomething like that drop. You'd had to have satisfied yourself in some way that something was happening on that.30APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M. TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:It probably is, if you didn't raise it withMitchell and Dean, you probably raised it with Ehrlichman, Dean and me and one of usprobably said that Mitchell said somethingthis morning about it, andPRESIDENT;Yes, I HALDEMAN:...I think that&#8482;s no problem or somethinglike that.PRESIDENT:So that's that. HALDEMAN:That's it.PRESIDENT:...You think he'll say that--that we wereaware of it? (unintelligible-tape noise)HALDEMAN:At that point, you're trying to bust thecase. You're not worrying about individualacts, at that point in time. You&#8482;re tryingto open up what the hell's going on here. And you don't know whether to believe this guy at this point. You're starting towonder.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:Some of some of these storiesPRESIDENT:LikeHALDEMAN:...some of these stories don&#8482;t check. Hetells you Krogh's worried about perjury, Ehrlichman tells you Krogh flatly says hedidn't perjure himself and has no concernabout it at all.PRESIDENT:That's quite, quite true at this point toothat, uh, we discussed the, the moneysituation, raising the money (unintelligible). I said, "That&#8482;s wrong," didn't I? Oh, wrong on clemency.HALDEMAN:No, you said getting the money was wrong.PRESIDENT:Hmm?APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M. TO 5:30 P.M.31HALDEMAN:You said that, that approach would bewrong...PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN:...trying to get the money. No, because Idon't think vou felt that clemency waswrong. I think you felt that you had some justification for clemency on Hunt.PRESIDENT:Right.HALDEMAN:Because of his family, and he then, actuallyyou'd talked about it for all of them because, because the people, they really arebeing screwed.PRESIDENT:Right HALDEMAN:...on an equity basis. PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) you can't-move in onimmediate clemency. You probably may not be able to do it. But in clemency there can be compassion, not, not concern with withcover-up.PRESIDENT:Also say, we can say we talked about,- said(unintelligible) it just won't work.(Unintelligible-with tape noise). We didn'tfurnish any money, thank God.HALDEMAN:Right. PRESIDENT:Remember I told you later that I could get a100,000?HALDEMAN:That makes--that rings a bell "cause youtalked about Rose having some money or-something. I remember that.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible with tape noise). HALDEMAN:You didn't know what kind of a--he had toldyou that Mitchell had been working up thisprogram with of, uh, financial support forthose people. You didn't know what that was. At that point you didn't know whether32APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M. TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:Mitchell was involved. He flatly says(CONTINUED)here--in this report to you, he isn'tconvinced that Mitchell was involved yet.orat least doesn't say so.PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) Hunt is blackmailing me andEhrlichman (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) that said, "screw him."PRESIDENT:He went to see Ehrlichman after this.HALDEMAN:Before (tape noise) the threat came in theFriday preceding, this was a Wednesday, anduh, the due date was the night preceding,the Tuesday night preceding I imagine the talk (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:Show Ehrlichman that memorandum fromKleindienst, and say we had no choice underthe circumstances.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible), PRESIDENT:Oh, Mitchell, I mean (unintelligible) or theprosecutor in this--has had nothing from this break-in wasmade available. The prosector (unintelligible). Dean, see, informed them of the Ellsberg break-in.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) Petersen.PRESIDENT:Right HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) prosecution. It'll break inthe paper, it'll say that'll clear Ellsberg,Watergate buggers, tried to do this or that and the other thing. Know what I mean? Thisis the only proper thing to do; John hedisagrees. And I--Kleindienst asked me. I said, there's no choice there.33APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M. TO 5:30 P.M.(Unintelligible with tape noise),PRESIDENT:How about immunity for Dean.HALDEMAN:I don't think he can do it. (Unintelligible) PRESIDENT:He's going to come in to see him. Accordingto Kleindienst, he's gonna see, uh. (tapenoise).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible). PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) no sir.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) I'm not trying, you can'tdeal with the guy, I don't think, if he's if worse. I think he's playing this game. Hemay not be.PRESIDENT:Yes. HALDEMAN:If he's not playing this game, then PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible with tape noise).HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible with tape noise).PRESIDENT:Yeah, with John, not you. (Unintelligiblewith tape noise) blackmail (unintelligible) it&#8482;s a possibility. I would say it's wrong.HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible),PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) you get the money. You doall that. Where does it lead you?(Unintelligible). Petersen's honorable.HALDEMAN:If he's honorable&#8211;34APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:Petersen? Petersen's (unintelligible)~HALDEMAN:(Unintelligible) Agnew for Vice President.Even your worst enemies don't want to do that.PRESIDENT:Well, yeah. (Unintelligible with tapenoise).HALDEMAN:John is only raising that as a, as anoutside possibility, that's something hejust spun out last night, I hadn't heard hisstory on that.PRESIDENT:Well, gotta look at it as a possibility.What Dean's up to.HALDEMAN:It's not been something (unintelligible). Ithink, he's just looking at the, at the worstPRESIDENT:That's right.HALDEMAN:...that could come out of that end, and Ithink it was, was, uh, in the process, also trying to bring home the point that we...PRESIDENT:that the sacking of Ehrlichman, Haldemanain't gonna do the trick.HALDEMAN:Well that's right.PRESIDENT:That's really true.HALDEMAN:Yeah, not from a point of self-defense. PRESIDENT:Absolutely.35APRIL 25,1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.HALDEMAN:We're prepared to do it, to go out on thesword if it's the right thing to do. Butlacking the conviction that it's the rightthing to do we&#8482;re, we&#8482;re, I'm sure you're gonna argue theI'm sure the point toconsider, the other wayPRESIDENT:Let's not drag up, (unintelligible) thewagons up around the White House. Let me say it's got to be you, Ehrlichman, and I havegot to put the wagons up around thePresident on this particular conversation. I just wonder if the son-of-a-bitch had arecorder on him.(Tape noise). I didn'tnotice any but I wasn't looking (unintelligible).HALDEMAN:It's almost inconceivable that the guy wouldtry that becausePRESIDENT:He was really coming in, in fact, to warnme.HALDEMAN:Yeah. He wasn't coming in, wasn't coming infor the purpose ofPRESIDENT:At that point, he hadn't made the commanddecision to, uh.HALDEMAN:He had no thought that you were going to sayanything like this. All he was coming in to tell you was that there was a problem. He wasn't expecting you to solve it, uh, uh, tosolve it that way. I think you probablysurprised him enormously by, by even raising this point. And think that is a&#8211;36APRIL 25, 1973, FROM 4:40 P.M., TO 5:30 P.M.PRESIDENT:What, what?HALDEMAN:Of, you know, well, we could get the money.PRESIDENT:Yeah. HALDEMAN;I think that's the last thing he expectedyou to say.PRESIDENT:What did he'd expect me to say, we can't doit?HALDEMAN:What, he expected you to say was well,that's an indication of another part of theproblem, isn't it? He was just trying to point, he was logging, and you look at thecourse of this conversation, he went fromthat point to other points, he was logging all the problems, we have, the soft spots. And they were things like Krogh, like the350, and like this and like that, and thiswas one of them.TOM HART: UNIDENTIFIED:Excuse me, Mr. President, Mr. Petersen'sacross the street. Did you want to see himhere or over at the Oval Office?PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) going across, I'm going totake a hard line on clemency.HALDEMAN:Yeah. I don't think he'll raise the subject. PRESIDENT:You don't think he will? HALDEMAN:I don't think he's gonna (unintelligible). Idon't (unintelligible).PRESIDENT:(Unintelligible) Oh, I think Dean's, Dean'stold him,, or outlined it.HALDEMAN.Could be, but I doubt it.